________________


Table of Contents 


Table of Contents        
Frequently Asked Questions        
New Public Policies:  SF Fair Chance Ordinance and Prop 47        
In the Spotlight:  The Success of Formerly Incarcerated Individuals        
About the Resource Guide        
About the Reentry Council of San Francisco        
Reentry Council of San Francisco Subcommittees        
First Things First        
Advice for Individuals in Custody        
Advice for Individuals Who Have Recently Been Released        
Advice for Individuals Helping Others Returning to San Francisco        
211 Community Services        
311 San Francisco Services        
511 Bay Area Transportation        
Support Groups        
Crisis Lines        
Important Message About Drug Overdose        
San Francisco Public Library        
2015 Calendar        
2016 Calendar        
List of Free Things To Do in San Francisco        
Probation & Parole        
Successfully Completing Probation & Parole        
San Francisco Adult Probation        
Post-Release Community Supervision and Mandatory Supervision        
Division of Adult Parole Operations, California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation        
U.S. Federal Probation        
Identification, Benefits & Income        
Identification        
Birth Certificate        
California State Driver’s License, ID, and DMV Print Out        
Social Security Card        
Record of Arrest and Prosecution (RAP) Sheet        
Your Right to Vote        
Benefits        
County Adult Assistance Program (CAAP)        
CalWORKs        
Food Stamps (now CalFresh)        
Social Security Administration Benefits        
Veteran’s Benefits        
The Affordable Care Act (aca)        
Medi-Cal        
OTHER AVAILABLE Healthcare Coverage in San Francisco        
Healthy Kids        
Healthy Workers        
Income        
Your Identity        
Credit        
Money        
Asset Building        
Money Management        
Credit Counseling        
Consumer Credit Counseling Service of San Francisco        
Savings        
Child Support        
Compromise of Arrears Program (COAP)        
Customer Service Outreach (Community & Jail Outreach Program)        
Noncustodial Parent Employment & Training Program (C-NET)        
Housing        
Permanent Housing        
Finding Housing        
Certificate of Homelessness        
Community Housing Partnership (CHP)        
Catholic Charities/CYO  Leland House        
Compass Family Services  SF Home        
In the Spotlight:  Nate Williams        
Hamilton Family Center  The Dudley Apartments        
San Francisco Human Services Agency  San Francisco Rental Assistance Program        
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  New Roads Program        
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Housing and Supportive Services        
Transitional Housing        
ARA First Step Home  Sober Living House        
CATS   A Woman’s Place-CARE Program        
In the Spotlight:  Curtis Penn        
Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice (CJCJ)  Cameo House Alternative Sentencing Program        
In the Spotlight:  Luis Aroche        
In the Spotlight:  Monique Randolph        
Compass Family Services  Compass Clara House        
GEO Reentry Services  Taylor Street Facility        
Good Shepherd  Gracenter        
Hamilton Family Center  First Avenues Program        
Hamilton Family Center  Transitional Housing Program        
Harbor House The Salvation Army        
Lutheran Social Services of Northern California  Forensic Housing Program        
The Metropolitan Fresh Start House, Inc.        
Nanny’s Sober Living        
Our Father’s Sober Living Environment        
Phatt Chance Community Services        
In the Spotlight:  George Turner        
In the Spotlight:  Larry Freitas        
Recovery Survival Network (RSN)  Family of Friends Sober Living Network        
San Francisco Network Ministries Housing Corporation  San Francisco SafeHouse        
In the Spotlight:  Rico Hamilton        
In the Spotlight:  Nichole Pettway        
Reentry Today        
In the Spotlight:  Chris Jones        
Victory Outreach San Francisco  Victory Outreach Recovery Home        
CATS  A Woman's Place        
In the Spotlight:  Katie Dixon        
Emergency Shelter for Families        
Compass Family Services  Compass Connecting Point        
Hamilton Family Center  Hamilton Family Residence & Emergency Center        
Domestic Violence Shelters        
Asian Women's Shelter        
La Casa de las Madres        
In the Spotlight:  Rachel Dunne        
Education & Employment        
Education        
City College of San Francisco  Disabled Students Programs & Services (DSPS)        
City College of San Francisco  Guardian Scholars Program        
City College of San Francisco  Second Chance Program        
In the Spotlight:  Ray Bursey        
City College of San Francisco  Way Pass Women’s Aftercare Program        
Five Keys Charter School        
San Francisco Conservation Corps        
San Francisco Public Library  Project Read        
San Francisco State University (ASI)  Project Rebound        
In the Spotlight:  Jason Bell        
Employment        
Fair Chance Ordinance San Francisco   Employment/Housing Policy        
Access Points        
In the Spotlight:  Joe Bluford        
Anders and Anders Foundation        
Arriba Juntos  Power Up Youth        
America Works of California  Employment Placement Services        
In the Spotlight:  Garry Walker        
Asian Neighborhood Design  Construction Training Program        
California Pacific Medical Center  PEP Jobs        
Center On Juvenile And Criminal Justice  Employment Services        
Charity Cultural Services Center  CityBuild Academy        
DEFY VENTURES        
Department of Rehabilitation        
Episcopal Community Services  CHEFS        
Goodwill Industries of San Franciso, San Mateo and Marin Counties One Stop Career Link Center, Reentry Navigator and Other Services        
Mission Hiring Hall  Employment Services        
In the Spotlight:  Tulio Cardoza        
Jewish Vocational Services (JVS)        
In the Spotlight:  Eli Crawford        
Positive Resource Center  PRC Employment Services        
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center        
SF Clean City Coalition  Employment Partnership Program        
The Bread Project  Employment Training Programs        
Toolworks  Janitorial Training/Placement        
Urban Services YMCA  OMI & API Service Connector Program        
Health & Treatment        
Health        
San Francisco Behavioral Health Access Center (BHAC), Community Behavioral Health Services, Department of Public Health        
California HIV/AIDS Hotline        
Alcoholics Anonymous        
Narcotics Anonymous        
Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous (FA)        
Bayview Hunters Point Foundation for Community Improvement Substance Abuse Program        
Central American Resource Center (CARECEN)        
Community Acupuncture Project Ear Clinic at the American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine (ACTCM)        
HealthRIGHT 360  Medical Clinics        
In the Spotlight:  Dominique Leslie        
In the Spotlight:  Ernest Kirkwood        
Mission Council on Alcohol Abuse for the Spanish Speaking, Inc.        
Mission Neighborhood Health Center  Clinica Esperanza        
New Skin  Adult Tattoo Removal        
South of Market Health Center        
Transitions Clinic        
U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs  San Francisco VA Downtown Clinic        
Westside Community Services  Services for Adults        
Women's Community Clinic  Women's Community Clinic Outreach Services        
Residential Treatment Facilities        
Asian American Recovery Services        
In the Spotlight:  Robert Smith        
Delancey Street Foundation        
In the Spotlight:  Robert Mansfield        
Friendship House        
HealthRIGHT 360  Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Services        
Jelani, Inc.        
In the Spotlight:  Adrian Maldonado        
The Latino Commission        
Progress Foundation        
St. Anthony Foundation  Father Alfred Center        
Outpatient Treatment        
Bay Area Addiction Research and Treatment  BAART Programs        
Asian American Recovery Services   Comprehensive Outreach Program for Pacific Islanders and Asian Substance Abusers (COPPASA)        
Asian American Recovery Services  Lee Woodward Counseling Center        
Asian American Recovery Services  Project ADAPT        
In the Spotlight:  Joseph Calderon        
Bay Area Addiction Research And Treatment  Community HealthCare        
HealthRIGHT 360  Outpatient Services        
Horizons Unlimited of San Francisco, Inc.  Outpatient Substance Abuse Treatment Program        
Hyde Street Community Services, Inc.  Tenderloin Outpatient Clinic        
Instituto Familiar de la Raza        
Positive Directions Equals Change        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Chinatown North Beach Mental Health Services        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Central City Older Adult Clinic        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Mission Mental Health        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  South of Market Mental Health Services        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Southeast Mission Geriatric Services        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Sunset Mental Health Clinic        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Transitional Youth Services        
Tom Waddell Clinic  OBOT        
UCSF  Citywide Case Management Forensic Program        
UCSF  Citywide Case Management Forensic NoVA Therapy Program        
Supportive Services        
Arab Cultural and Community Center        
Bay Area Women’s & Children’s Center        
Black Coalition on AIDS        
Central City Hospitality House        
Center for Restorative Justice Works Get On The Bus        
Center for Young Womens Development  Sisters Rising & GDAP        
Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice  NoVA Services        
In the Spotlight:  Gerald Miller        
In the Spotlight:  Steve Adami        
Centerforce  Positive Connections Program/Project Start        
In the Spotlight:  John Wilson        
Community Assessment and Services Center (CASC)  A Partnership of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department (APD) and Leaders in Community Alternatives (LCA)        
Community Works West  Young Men’s Reentry Program/Voices on the Rise        
Community Works West  Women Rising/Rising Voices        
Compass Family Services  Compass Connecting Point        
Deaf Community Counseling Services (DCCS)        
Dress For Success San Francisco        
San Francisco Department of Aging and Adult Services  Aging and Disability Resource Center        
Episcopal Community Services  SF START        
Episcopal Community Services  Adult Education Center        
Glide Foundation  Glide Daily Free Meals Program        
Glide Foundation  Men In Progress        
Glide Foundation  Walk-In Center        
Glide Foundation  Women's Center        
Homeless Prenatal Program        
Jireh Technologies, Inc.        
Lavender Youth Recreation & Information Center (LYRIC)        
Leaders in Community Alternatives, Inc. (LCA)  Electronic Monitoring        
Mission Neighborhood Resource Center        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  With Open Arms a Second Chance Act Program        
San Francisco Pretrial Diversion, Inc.  Court Accountable Homeless Services (CAHS)        
San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  Community Programs        
San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  No Violence Alliance (NoVA)        
San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  Women's Resource Center        
Saved by Grace        
Senior Ex-Offender Program        
In the Spotlight:  Frank Williams        
SF Bay Counseling and Education        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Mobile Crisis Treatment Team        
St. Anthony Foundation  Free Clothing Program        
St. Anthony Foundation  Social Work Center        
St. Anthony Foundation  Tenderloin Tech Lab        
St. Vincent de Paul  Wellness Center        
Swords to Plowshares  Health and Social Services        
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation  Social Work Unit        
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Representative Payee Program        
This Sacred Space        
Veterans Justice Outreach        
Village Connect  Culture Based Transformative Coaching (CBTC)        
Village Connect  Human Sustainability Groups (HSG)        
Meals        
Food Pantries        
Families & Children        
A Better Way        
Community Works West, Inc.  Project WHAT!        
Compass Family Services  ACCESS Child Care        
Holy Family Day Home  Infant, Toddler and Pre-K Program and Family Support Service        
Homeless Children's Network (HCN)  Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment        
San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Compromise of Arrears Program (COAP)        
San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Customer Service Outreach (Community & Jail Outreach Program)        
San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Noncustodial Parent Employment & Training Program (C-NET)        
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Child Crisis Services        
Westside Community Services  Services for Children and Youth        
Legal & Advocacy        
Legal        
AIDS Legal Referral Panel (ALRP)        
Asian Law Caucus        
Bay Area Legal Aid (BayLegal)        
Cooperative Restraining Order Clinic        
Eviction Defense Collaborative (EDC) and Rental Assistance (RADCo)        
Golden Gate University School of Law  Women’s Employment Rights Clinic        
Homeless Advocacy Project (HAP)        
Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco        
La Raza Centro Legal        
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights  Second Chance Legal Clinic        
Prison Law Office        
Root & Rebound  Legal Advocacy & Direct Services        
Rosen, Bien, Galvan & Grunfeld LLP        
San Francisco Office of Citizen Complaints        
San Francisco Office of the District Attorney  Back on Track Initiative        
San Francisco Office of the District Attorney  Victim Services Division        
San Francisco Office of the Public Defender  Clean Slate Program        
San Francisco Office of the Public Defender  Reentry Unit        
Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco  ACCESS Center (Legal Self-Help)        
Swords to Plowshares  Legal Department        
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Legal Services        
Advocacy        
Legal Services for Prisoners with Children  California Coalition for Women Prisoners (CCWP)        
Legal Services for Prisoners with Children        
Legal Services for Prisoners with Children  All of Us or None        
Proyecto Common Touch  Get Out The Jail Vote/CA        
San Francisco Sheriff's Department  Prisoner Legal Services        
Regional Services        
Parole Regional Offices  Southern Region        
Parole Regional Offices   Northern Region        
Alameda County        
Abode Services        
Center For Employment Opportunities (CEO)  Employment Services        
Goodwill Industries of the Greater East Bay  Homelss Services Program        
Leaders In Community Alternatives  Transitional Day Reporting Center (TDRC)        
Options Recovery Service        
WIA Workforce Investment Act  Breaking Through Barriers        
Contra Costa County        
Contra Costa County Behavioral Health Access Line  Alcohol and Other Drug Services        
Discovery House  Residential Substance Abuse Program        
Rubicon Programs  Financial Opportunity Center        
Shelter Inc.        
Kern County        
The Mission at Kern County        
Salvation Army  Adult Rehabilitation Center        
Los Angeles County        
Delancey Street Foundation  Los Angeles        
HealthRIGHT360  Outpatient Services        
HealthRIGHT360  Residential Treatment Services        
PATH  Supportive Services/Interim & Transitional Housing        
Weingart Center  Homeless Services        
Marin County        
Homeward Bound of Marin  Family Center – Emergency Shelter        
Homeward Bound of Marin  Services For Homeless Adult        
Napa County        
Community Action of Napa Valley  Hope Center        
Napa County Health and Human Services Agency  Alcohol and Drug Services        
Sacramento County        
Leaders in Community Alternatives  ADRC North        
Saint John’s Program for Real Change        
Valley Recovery Center of California        
Volunteers of America  Men’s A Street Shelter        
San Diego County        
Alpha Project  Homeless Services        
Pathfinders of San Diego  Recovery Services        
San Diego Rescue Mission  Residential Treatment/Transitional Housing/Emergency Shelter for Men, Women and Children        
San Mateo County        
David Lewis Community Reentry Center        
Jericho Project        
JobTrain  Employment Services        
Mz. Shirliz Transitional Inc.   Clean & Sober Transitional Housing        
Our Common Ground  Substance Abuse Treatment Facility        
Project 90  Substance Abuse Treatment Services        
San Mateo County  Service Connect        
Santa Clara County        
CITYTEAM International  Rescue Mission/Men’s Emergency Shelter        
CITYTEAM International  Substance Abuse Treatment Services        
Project 90  Substance Abuse Treatment Services San Jose        
Santa Clara County Reentry Center        
Solano County        
Healthy Partnerships  Substance Abuse Services        
Family Resource Centers        
Mission SOLANO Rescue Mission        
Solano County Substance Abuse Services        
Sonoma County        
COTS  The Petaluma Kitchen        
COTS  Mary Isaak Center (Transitional Housing/Emergency Shelter)        
Redwood Gospel Mission  Men’s Shelter and Women’s Shelter        
Sonoma County Job Link        
Sonoma County Probation  Day Reporting Center        
Turning Point  Residential Treatment Program        


































Frequently Asked Questions


Since the printing of our first edition in 2007, we have received hundreds of letters from individuals incarcerated throughout the state.  In response to those letters, we have summarized the most frequent questions.
How do I get more information on the Reentry Council of San Francisco and its meetings?


The Reentry Council of San Francisco began in 2009 to address the unique needs of the San Francisco population returning from jails and prisons. The multi-faceted agency and community partnership meets bimonthly to discuss information related to reentry in pursuit of coordinating information sharing, planning, and engagement of vested individuals. The Reentry Council and its subcommittees identify funding, programs, needs and barriers that affect individuals returning to the San Francisco community post-incarceration.  Meetings are public and everyone who feels connected to the work of reentry is encouraged to attend. The Reentry Council is not a program; we provide information to individuals about resources and services in the San Francisco area. We produce and distribute Getting Out and Staying Out: A Guide to San Francisco Resources for People Leaving Jails and Prisons. For more information on the Reentry Council and its subcommittees please see pages 18-19 of the guide.


Are there other resource guides like San Francisco’s?


California is comprised of 58 different counties, all with unique resources. Some resource information can be found online and can be difficult to obtain in hard copy format. The Reentry Council tries its best to provide reentry information for whatever area regardless of county or state to the best of our ability.  In this edition, we have included a new section, titled Regional Services.  This section includes basic information about services in all Bay Area Counties, Sacramento, Kern County, Los Angeles and San Diego.  You can also visit our Reentry Council website for more information:   www.sfgov.org/reentry


How can I go directly from jail/prison into a drug rehabilitation program?


If you are currently incarcerated and seeking to gain acceptance into a program upon release we recommend you write the program directly.  Your CDCR counselor, probation officer, or public defender may be able to help you with the process.


Is there any advice for lifers, who do not have a fixed release date, who are looking for a program?
 
Apply anyway; do not let your current circumstances discourage you. Acceptance into a reentry program can be a condition of your release. Continue reaching out to programs listed in this resource guide.


Is there any specific advice for 290 registrants? 


Individuals convicted of sex offenses face unique challenges reintegrating back into the community. Because of this, it is recommended to begin reentry planning well in advance of release.  There are two possible residency restrictions, which would limit where you may live: a 2000-foot restriction, and a half-mile restriction.   It is unlikely that the 2000-foot restriction will be imposed at all, in light of the California Supreme Court decision in In re Taylor (60 Cal.4th 1019), and the half-mile restriction may only be imposed on people with very specific convictions (PC 288 or PC 288.5).  


If you are being subjected to either of these restrictions, please go immediately to the San Francisco Public Defender’s Office (555 7th Street) to speak with someone about filing a writ of habeas corpus.  This process will likely lead to the court suspending the restriction, at least temporarily.  Once the residency restriction is stayed, there are more options for obtaining needed services.


Can I apply for benefits, Food Stamps (CalFresh), CalWORKS,  CAAP etc. while incarcerated?

While you are unable to apply for benefits while residing in an institution, the San Francisco Human Services Agency makes every effort to respond to applications received from community members within 72 hours. Please see the Benefits section of the guide to find more information on San Francisco public benefit programs and how to apply.


How do I request a transfer of probation/post release community supervision to another county?


First, contact your probation officer.  Typically, the municipality which has been assigned to supervise you will require you show proof you live in another county.  Next contact your attorney or public defender and ask to be put back on calendar and file a 1203.9 request to the court.  These requests always have to go through the courts.  If approved, the current probation department contacts the receiving agency and verifies the address before proceeding.  This process can take anywhere from 3 to 6 months.


How do I request a transfer of parole supervision to another county?


A transfer of your parole supervision has to be initiated by your parole agent. You must usually be able to verify permanent housing in order for your transfer to be approved.


Once released and stable, how do I volunteer or give back to the community?


Many of the organizations in this guidebook seek volunteers on a regular basis. Follow up with organizations that hold a special connection to you. The Reentry Council welcomes the participation of individuals whose life experience reflects and enhances the purpose of the Council.
 














New Public Policies:  SF Fair Chance Ordinance and Prop 47 


Fair Chance Ordinance (San Francisco)
On August 13, 2014, San Francisco’s Fair Chance Ordinance went into effect. The Ordinance requires some housing providers and employers in San Francisco to review an individual’s qualifications before inquiring about their arrest and conviction record. This ordinance applies to employers with 20 or more employees, contractors with city contracts over $5,000, and housing providers that have received funding from the City. Employers, contractors and housing providers must also consider the relevance of an applicant’s convictions, how long ago those convictions occurred and evidence of rehabilitation.


To view a list of frequently asked questions about the fair Chance Ordinance please visit the Human Rights Commission website at: www.sf-hrc.org/fair-chance-ordinance


Proposition 47 (California)
In November 2014, Proposition 47 passed and went into effect immediately. Proposition 47 will have a very large impact on criminal justice policies in our state. It affects people who have been convicted of, are currently incarcerated for, or will be charged with the following felonies: 
* Grand Theft of property worth $950 or less
* Shoplifting of property worth $950 or less
* Receiving Stolen Property worth $950 or less
* Writing Bad Checks under $950
* Check Forgery of $950 or less 
* Drug Possession for personal use
In many cases, the law is a bit more complicated than this, but this is the gist of the new measure. If you have completed your sentence, you must petition the court to have your conviction reduced to a misdemeanor. Contact the Public Defender in your county of conviction to learn how to proceed in that county. Once your conviction has been reduced to a misdemeanor, you may be eligible for a criminal dismissal (§1203.4(a)). Again, your Public Defender will have the information you need to proceed. 


If you live in San Francisco you can contact the San Francisco Public Defender Clean Slate Program: (415) 553-9337 (see page 241 of this resource guide). You may also contact the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights (see page 236 of this resource guide) at (415) 814-7610 or email them at secondchance@lccr.com.
In the Spotlight:  The Success of Formerly Incarcerated Individuals
In our 2015/16 edition, we are proud to display our new "In the Spotlight" editorials throughout the resource guide.  All too often we overlook the remarkable changes people have made in their lives.  Here we have highlighted the unique accomplishments of __27__formerly incarcerated individuals.  Change is possible but requires a commitment to living life differently.  If you are incarcerated and reading this guide, or if you are struggling in the process of change, please know the individuals we have spotlighted were once in your shoes, facing the same challenges and hardships.  Do not be discouraged by resistance; set goals, stay focused, and rise to the challenge!
________________


About the Resource Guide
The Reentry Council of the City and County of San Francisco is proud to release the 2015/2016 edition of Getting Out & Staying Out: A Guide to San Francisco Resources for People Leaving Jails and Prisons. The Guide was first published in September 2007 and was the product of a collaborative reentry planning process focused on improving access to resources for individuals reintegrating into San Francisco communities after incarceration. Since the first issue, over 14,000 bound, and many more electronic, copies have been distributed. The Guide is used by a wide variety of individuals, including currently or previously incarcerated people and their family members; service providers; corrections staff; attorneys; probation and parole officers; and other advocates. People who use the guide find it comprehensive, accurate and use-friendly. The information the guide contains is as current as possible, but we do advise you to contact a listed resource directly for the most up to date information.  A feedback postcard is enclosed—please fill it out and let us know how the Guide can be improved.  Thank you!
About the Reentry Council of San Francisco 
Getting Out & Staying Out: A Guide to San Francisco Resources for People Leaving Jails and Prisons is just one of the strategies of the Reentry Council of the City and County of San Francisco to help individuals make successful and permanent returns from incarceration. From 2005 until 2008, two ad hoc reentry councils focused on different aspects of the reentry of people from prisons and jails to San Francisco communities: the Safe Communities Reentry Council (SCRC), co-chaired by Supervisor Ross Mirkarimi and Public Defender Jeff Adachi, and the San Francisco Reentry Council (SFRC), co-chaired by District Attorney Kamala D. Harris and Sheriff Michael Hennessey. In September of 2008, these ad hoc councils were unified and strengthened through the creation of the Reentry Council of the City and County of San Francisco (see San Francisco Administrative Code 5.1). Its purpose is to coordinate local efforts to support adults exiting San Francisco County Jail, San Francisco juvenile justice out-of-home placements, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation facilities, and the United States Federal Bureau of Prison facilities.  The Council coordinates information sharing, planning, and engagement among all interested private and public stakeholders to the extent permissible under federal and state law. 

The Reentry Council is composed of 23 members. They represent the Office of the Mayor, the Board of Supervisors, the Public Defender’s Office, the District Attorney’s Office, the Sheriff’s Department, the Adult Probation Department, the Juvenile Probation Department, the Police Department, the Department of Economic and Workforce Development, the Human Services Agency, the Department of Public Health, the Department of Child Support Services, the Department of Children, Youth, and their Families, the San Francisco Superior Court, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Division of Adult Parole Operations, and the United States Probation and Pretrial Services System.  Seven formerly incarcerated individuals hold the remaining seats on the Council. The Co-Chairs of the Reentry Council are the Chief Adult Probation Officer, District Attorney, Mayor or mayoral designee, Public Defender, and Sheriff. For more information, please visit:  www.sfgov.org/reentry


Reentry Council of San Francisco Subcommittees
The Reentry Council has three subcommittees. These subcommittees are made up of members of the public and provide input and advice to the Reentry Council. The following are the three subcommittees:


Assessment and Connections:  Its purpose is to improve assessments, referrals, and connections for individuals across systems and institutions, including appropriate connections between institutions and outside, and criminal justice and non-criminal justice entities. The subcommittee’s focus is on immediate reentry issues, e.g., benefits, housing and employment.


Policy and Operational Practices:  Its purpose is to develop local policy and law, and shape state and federal policy and law to better reflect the Council’s shared vision.


Support and Opportunities:  Its purpose is to develop, promote, and expand effective reentry programs, services, and systems. This subcommittee supports leadership development, education, and advocacy of individuals impacted by incarceration.


All three subcommittees are open to new members. Everyone is welcome, and all meetings are open to the public. Subcommittees meet six times a year. If you would like to join a subcommittee or come to a meeting, please contact Karen Shain at karen.shain@sfgov.org. 


For more information about the Reentry Council and its subcommittees, please visit:  www.sfgov.org/reentry


________________


Notes        


	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	




First Things First


The following pages contain advice for the different groups of people who use this resource guide: individuals who are in custody, individuals who have recently been released from custody, and individuals who are helping others returning to San Francisco.  


Advice for Individuals in Custody


Thank you for picking up this resource guide and seeking out help. We know that planning for your release from jail or prison can be difficult for a number of reasons: You don’t have access to the internet. It’s almost impossible to reach people by calling collect. You might not have anyone to make arrangements on your behalf. Maybe you’re feeling anxious about your upcoming transition. We hope this guide will make it easier for you to plan ahead. Here is some basic advice:


1. Get started early. We recommend that you begin planning for your release at least three months in advance. It is never too early to start thinking about the things you will need when you are released. 
2. Write things down. Sometimes it’s easier to face the things you need to do if you make a list. Jot down things you know you will need in order to be successful, such as a place to live, job training, more education, medical treatment, family support, help with a substance abuse problem, legal advice, etc.
3. Work backwards from your list of needs. Now that you know what you’ll need, make another list of the things you’ll have to do before you can accomplish what you want to accomplish. Be realistic. Don’t make plans that you know would cause you to be out of compliance with parole or probation conditions. Don’t rely on people or strategies that have let you down in the past.
4. Use the guide to look for options. Once you’ve got your to-do list, go through this guide to find organizations that offer housing, job training, education, and the other services you need. Be sure to read all of the details about each organization carefully so that you know you are eligible for the services you want. If, for example, you see that you will need identification or proof of income before you’re able to receive services, add those items to your to-do list.
5. Ask for help. If you need more information about a service or organization, write them a letter and mail it to the address listed in each entry. Ask a friend to proofread your letter to make sure what you’re asking for is clear and specific. Don’t be discouraged if you don’t receive a response. Write to them again! Sometimes you will have to wait a long time for a response to your questions.  
6. Make a back-up plan. You can’t always rely on Plan A, so it’s a good idea to come up with a Plan B. Think about what you will do if your plans fall through. Try to figure out other options so that you’re not stuck without a plan. 
7. Stay organized and optimistic. Keep all of your notes and lists together in the same place so that you know where everything is. Stay positive, even when things seem difficult. You can do it!
________________


Advice for Individuals Who Have Recently Been Released


Congratulations! You’ve made it through a challenging time and now you have an opportunity to make some decisions which will help you move forward in your life. You may have heard that the first three months after your release from incarceration are the most important, because it’s during those 90 days that you are at the greatest risk of being incarcerated again. This is not true for everyone, but some people find it difficult to make the transition, especially if they are struggling to find a stable place to live, a source of income, and a supportive group of people who will help them succeed. This guide will help you with some of those challenges. Here is some basic advice:


1. Make a list of priorities. If you weren’t able to plan prior to being released from jail or prison, or if you’ve had to change your plans, start now by making a list of your priorities. What do you need to do first? What’s in your way? Keep your list with you and scratch things off the list as you accomplish them. 
2. Find a safe space. If you don’t have a safe place to sleep, make that your number 1 priority. Finding housing in San Francisco can be very difficult, so be prepared to go through a long process before you are able to call a place “home.” Refer to the Housing section of this guide for advice about how to find the right housing for you. 
3. Avoid risky situations. You probably know what activities or neighborhoods or people can get you into trouble. Stay away from them! Changing your life means letting go of old habits, hangouts, and relationships. It might be lonely or strange at first, but you will find other ways of filling your time soon. Hang in there and trust that this transition is only temporary. 
4. Make and keep appointments. Use this guide to find organizations that will help you meet your needs and goals. Call or drop in for an appointment – and be sure to follow through! Remember to refer to your list of priorities to see what is most important to accomplish. For example, do you need any medication? Do you need to get enrolled in public benefits? Do you need help with a mental health or substance use problem? 
5. Identify the people you can rely on. Sometimes people coming out of jail or prison decide that they need to put distance between themselves and their old friends, family members, or other associates because these relationships have had negative consequences in the past. This might be a good idea, but you will need support from people who care about you and your best interest. Who can you count on? Sometimes a case manager, a teacher, a counselor, or a parole agent or probation officer is the person you will need to rely on for support while you build a new circle of friends.  
6. Be proactive. Even when you’re feeling overwhelmed, it’s important to keep accomplishing tasks on your to-do list. Make and keep at least one appointment or commitment each day. Give yourself credit for making a plan and sticking to it.  
________________


Advice for Individuals Helping Others Returning to San Francisco


Thank you for seeking out this guide to help you help others make a safe and successful return to San Francisco. Here are some tips for using the guide effectively:


1. Use the guide as a teaching tool. Some individuals might not be familiar with reading a resource guide and will benefit from assistance in learning how to use it. Show the person you’re helping how to navigate through the sections. Go through the table of contents and index together so s/he knows how to search through the guide for what s/he is looking for. Make sure you both are familiar with the format of each entry and know how to interpret eligibility information and other special instructions for accessing services.  
2. Verify the accuracy of information. If you are using the guide within a few months of its most recent printing, chances are the guide is accurate and up to date, but it’s still a good idea to call specific organizations to verify that the hours listed or contact information is consistent with what’s printed. Double check the organization’s website to make sure that there are no other major changes to services offered. 
3. Help us improve the guide. Let us know if you notice an error or omission in the guide. We update the guide regularly and will be sure to incorporate any edits or suggestions you have for improving the guide’s contents. We appreciate your help with this!
4. Distribute the content freely. We want to make sure that this important tool is distributed as widely as possible and to the people with the greatest need. If you have copies of the guide, give them to people who are in custody or who have been released recently. Please prioritize the bound copies for individuals who have experienced incarceration and those without access to the internet. People who have access to the internet are able to download the entire guide or portions of it at www.sfgov.org/reentry
________________
1. 211 Community Services
211 provides important community services such as basic human needs, support for children and families, physical and mental health resources, employment services, support for seniors and persons with disabilities, and local volunteer opportunities and donations. 211 is a service provided by United Way of the Bay Area as a service to people living in and around San Francisco.
On your phone, simply dial “211.”
211 is free, confidential, and 24-hour service for speakers of 150 languages. 
For TTY, dial (415) 808-4440. Website: www.211bayarea.org
If you are within San Francisco, call 2-1-1 anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
If you are outside of San Francisco, call (800) 273-6222 


311 San Francisco Services
311 provides information about non-emergency services provided by the City/County of San Francisco. Highly trained customer service representatives will assist you.
On your phone, simply dial “311.” 311 is free, and 24-hour service is available for speakers of 145 languages. 
For TTY, dial (415) 701-2323. 
If you are within San Francisco, call 3-1-1 anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
If you are outside of San Francisco, call (415) 701-2311 anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Website: www.sf311.org
511 Bay Area Transportation
511 is a free phone and web service that consolidates 9-County Bay Area transportation information into a one-stop resource. 511 provides up-to-the-minute information on traffic conditions, incidents and driving times, schedule, route and fare information for the Bay Area’s public transportation services, instant carpool and vanpool referrals, bicycling information and more.  This is an invaluable resource for navigating the many transit systems in the Bay Area, including BART, Muni, Caltrain, ACE, Santa Clara VTA, AC Transit, Golden Gate Transit, SamTrans, WestCAT, and others.
511 is free, and available 24-hours a day, within the 9-County San Francisco Bay Area region. On your phone, simply dial “511.”
Website: www.511.org 
________________


Support Groups
Alcoholics Anonymous offers more than 700 meetings in and around San Francisco. More information on how to find a meeting is available in the “Health & Wellness” chapter. You can also call a 24-hour Hotline, (415) 674-1821 (for San Francisco), and (415) 499-0400 (for Marin).
Narcotics Anonymous offers meetings around the Bay Area, and makes no distinction between drugs, including alcohol. More information is available in the “Health & Wellness” chapter. You can call the NA Helpline at (415) 621-8600.
Crisis Lines
San Francisco Suicide Prevention provides telephone intervention to people experiencing a suicidal crisis, as well as more general counseling services. More information is available in the “Health & Treatment” listings. You can also call the 24-Hour Hotline at (415) 781-0500. Website: www.sfsuicide.org.
San Francisco Domestic Violence Hotline provides help to people experiencing domestic violence, battering, relationship abuse, or intimate partner violence. Domestic violence is a pattern of behavior used to establish power and control over another person through fear and intimidation, often including the threat or use of violence. Domestic violence is a crime that can include physical abuse, emotional abuse, economic abuse, and sexual abuse. Batterers use threats, intimidation, isolation, and other behaviors to maintain power over their victims. Domestic violence impacts everyone, regardless of income, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, or religion. 
* Are you ever afraid of your partner?
* Does your partner threaten to hurt you?
* Does your partner control all the money?
* Has your partner ever pushed or shoved you, thrown things at you, or forced you to have sex?
* Does your partner stalk you, or show up uninvited at your job or when out with friends? 
If these experiences are part of your life, you are not alone and help is available. If you are being abused, call the San Francisco Domestic Violence Hotline at (415) 333-HELP 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you are in immediate danger, call 911.


San Francisco Parental Stress Hotline 24-hour crisis and counseling line helps parents under stress. Operated by the San Francisco Child Abuse Prevention Council, the TALK Line provides counseling to parents experiencing stress, and provides resources to support them in dealing with the damaging effects of emotional abuse, lack of parenting skills, substance abuse, fragmented families, relationship violence, and poverty. If you are a parent who is stressed out and needs support, call (415) 441-KIDS 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
________________


Important Message About Drug Overdose 


You may be at risk. Learn the facts, protect yourself. 
You may have used drugs in the past and may be tempted to use again in the future after you get out of jail or prison. It is important for you to know that when you come out of jail or prison, you don’t have the same tolerance for drugs and alcohol that you might have had when you went in—even if you’ve only been locked up for a short time. This reduced tolerance for drugs and alcohol puts you at risk for overdose. You have the greatest chance of overdosing during the first few weeks and months after you get out if you decide to use again. 


Overdose facts:
* Overdoses can happen with any drug, but you are at highest risk if you use heroin, cocaine or prescription painkillers like oxycodone (examples: OxyContin, Percocet), hydrocodone (examples: Vicodin or some cough syrups), morphine, fentanyl, or methadone. 
* A lot of overdoses happen when people use drugs after a period of not using—like when they get out of jail or prison—because their tolerance is lower. This means your body can’t handle as much drugs or alcohol than it did before.
* It is very risky to mix drugs, especially downers and uppers (like heroin and cocaine) or downers with other downers—like alcohol and pills, alcohol and heroin, or benzodiazepines (aka “benzos,” like Xanax, Klonopin, Valium, Ativan) and opiates (heroin, methadone, prescription painkillers). 


Overdose deaths are preventable. There are ways you can lower your risk for overdose:
* Get support upon release for issues with drug use. See the sections on HEALTH & TREATMENT and SUPPORTIVE SERVICES to find agencies that provide substance abuse treatment and ongoing support for people in recovery.
* If you do decide to use, do not use alone—no one will be able to help if you are in trouble. 
* Try not to mix drugs, even “legal” drugs like prescription painkillers and alcohol—these are very dangerous combinations. 
* Don’t overestimate your tolerance. It has decreased since you’ve been incarcerated and your body won’t be able to handle the same amount you may have done before. 


How do I get more information about preventing overdoses, or what to do if one happens?


There are programs all over the US that teach drug overdose prevention and what to do if you or someone you know overdoses. Some of these programs give out a drug called Narcan (also known by its generic name, Naloxone) that helps stop an overdose on opiates like heroin, methadone or prescription painkillers. These programs teach you how to use Narcan and do rescue breathing (mouth to mouth) in case someone overdoses and they give you a Narcan kit for emergencies. These programs are free and confidential. If you are interested in learning more about preventing overdoses or what to do in case of an overdose, please contact the Harm Reduction Coalition to find the program closest you. 


Phone: (510) 444-6969 ext. 16. 
Email: dope@harmreduction.org
Office Address: 1440 Broadway, Suite 510, Oakland, CA 94612
________________


San Francisco Adult Probation
The mission of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department is: “Protecting the Community, Serving Justice, and Changing Lives.” You may be connected to specific programs and services, depending on your needs, as determined by you and your probation officer. The Adult Probation Department is committed to assisting you to successfully complete probation, and to supporting you in having a healthier and happier life. 
Contact Information:
SF Adult Probation Department
Hall of Justice
850 Bryant Street, Room 200
San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone (415) 553-1706
Office Hours:  Monday – Friday, 8:00am – 5:00pm
I’m on Probation…Now What? (Some Guidance from the SF Adult Probation Department)
Leaving jail and all other legal troubles behind is something that you have been looking forward to for quite some time now, and now it’s finally happening. If you’re lucky you got some preparation before you got out, assuming you were in custody. But now, the Judge said that you’re on probation. What does that mean? What do you have to do?
Let’s start at the basics – what is probation? Probation is a suspended state prison or county jail sentence. In other words, instead of doing time in custody, you have been given an opportunity to go back to your community provided you follow some specific conditions. All probation sentences are different; however, there are some standard conditions that apply to most if not all persons placed on probation.
1 - You need to contact the Probation Department as soon as you are released from custody. If you are released after 5:00pm, please contact the Department the next business day. Offices open at 8:00am and close at 5:00pm, Monday through Friday.   Main phone number is: (415) 553-1706.


2 - When you contact the Department you will need to provide our support staff with your full name and date of birth. If you have your court number, please provide it, too. Our support staff will be able to give you the name and phone number of your assigned probation officer.


3 - Your probation officer will schedule an appointment to meet with you. Please make sure to keep your appointment and be on time. If you cannot make your appointment, you must call the day before to re-schedule.


4 - More likely than not the Court has ordered you to attend a counseling or rehabilitation program. You and your officer will choose which programs best meet your needs. It is important that you contact the program and arrange for an intake session.


5 - Stay out of trouble! We know you’re facing a lot of challenges and difficulties getting your life back together, but if you need help or support, call your officer before you do something that puts you at risk. 
________________


Post-Release Community Supervision and Mandatory Supervision 


In October 2011, the State of California implemented the Public Safety Realignment Act of 2011, also known as Assembly Bill 109 (AB109). AB 109 transferred responsibility for some of the state prisoner population from CDCR to California counties. Under AB 109, individuals who were committed to state prison for certain felonies will be released to Post-Release Community Supervision (PRCS), which in most counties is administered by probation departments. In addition, AB 109 requires that individuals convicted of certain felonies serve their time in local jails, where previously they would have been sentenced to state prison. The new sentencing scheme is outlined in PC § 1170(h). If you have questions about whether you fall under AB 109, please contact your attorney. 


If you are informed that you will be on Post-Release Community Supervision or Mandatory Supervision upon your release from jail or prison, you should contact the Adult Probation Department for specific information about the length and terms of your supervision. The Adult Probation Department is committed to your success and will work with you to make your return to San Francisco a safe and successful one. 


Contact Information:
SF Adult Probation Department
Hall of Justice
850 Bryant Street, Room 200
San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone (415) 553-1706
Office Hours:  Monday – Friday, 8:00am – 5:00pm




Division of Adult Parole Operations, California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
You must check in with your parole agent within 24 hours of your release from custody.  If you do not report, the parole agent will make reasonable attempts to contact you prior to issuing a warrant for your arrest.  Some individuals may be required to register under PC 290 (sex offense), PC 457.1 (arson), or H&S 11590 (drug offense) with the Police Department. Be sure that you understand the conditions of your parole, and work with your parole agent and community resources to successfully meet these conditions. www.cdcr.ca.gov/parole 
The CDCR Office of Community Partnerships offers resources by county on their website:
www.cdcr.ca.gov/Community_Partnerships/Resource_Directory.aspx


San Francisco Parole Complex 
1727 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94103
(415) 703-3164 (Units 1, 3, & 4)




________________


U.S. Federal Probation


We are dedicated to upholding the highest standards of Judicial excellence by ensuring the fair and humane administration of justice. By our combined efforts, we provide thorough investigative reports with equitable recommendations. We supervise individuals with a commitment to compliance, community safety, and correctional treatment, with a focus on positive change for each individual. We are committed to following the rule of law and treating all parties with dignity and respect. Our pledge to outstanding service is promoted by encouraging the contributions and values of a diverse staff by empowering their efforts in developing organizational unity, mutual respect and individual growth.  www.canp.uscourts.gov
Contact Information:
United States Federal Probation Office for the Northern District of California
San Francisco Office
450 Golden Gate Avenue, Suite 17-6884
San Francisco, CA 94102
Phone (415) 436-7540 --You will enter into an automated system.  Press 0 (zero) for operator
www.canp.uscourts.gov



Guidance for Federal Probationers
You must check in with your federal probation officer within 72 hours of your release from custody.  The probation officer will make reasonable attempts to contact you.  Court action may result if you do not appear before your probation officer or you can’t be reached. 


“Release conditions” are rules set by the court that people on supervision must follow if they want to remain in the community. The court imposes release conditions to help structure the person's actions and activities. For example, release conditions may prohibit possession of guns or other weapons; prohibit contact with victims or witnesses; restrict association with certain persons; restrict travel; impose a curfew. 


Among the many other release conditions the court may impose are community service, electronic monitoring, employment, mental health treatment, or substance abuse treatment. Be sure to talk to your Probation Officer about how to get connected to needed services or resources.
________________



Identification, Benefits & Income

Identification
Birth Certificate


WHERE TO GET YOUR BIRTH CERTIFICATE DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU WERE BORN.


Born in City and County of San Francisco


GET A CERTIFIED COPY OF YOUR BIRTH CERTIFICATE
COST: $25
Payment Methods: VISA, Master Card, cash, money order, or personal or business check payable to Department of Public Health


Office of the County Clerk 
* City Hall, Room 162, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, San Francisco, CA 94102
* Phone: (415) 554-4950
* Hours: 8am – 4pm, Monday –  Friday (closed major holidays)


In Person: You are required to complete an “Application for Certified Copy of Birth Record,” and present valid legal photo I.D. Processing time for orders in person is approximately 20 minutes. You must know this information to fill out the form:
* Full name at birth
* Date of birth
* Mother’s Full Name at birth
* Father’s Full Name
* Place of Birth (Hospital name if known)


Born in California – Outside of San Francisco


Call the California Department of Health Services: (916) 445-2684 for information


GET A CERTIFIED COPY OF YOUR BIRTH CERTICATE
Cost:  $25


In-Person Request – County Recorder’s Office
The best option is to go to the Recorder’s Office in the county in which you were born.  


BEFORE YOU GO -- Call the California Department or County office and ask questions, including: Do you need to show identification to get the birth certificate? How long does it take to get the birth certificate? 


________________
Mailed-In Request – California Department of Health Services


If you can’t make it to another county’s Recorder’s Office, you can mail the request.
                California Department of Health Services
                Office of Vital Records - M.S. 5103
                P.O. Box 997410
                Sacramento, CA 95899-7410


YOU MUST ENCLOSE THE FOLLOWING IN YOUR MAILED REQUEST:


* Check or money order made out to California Department of Health Services for $25
* Birth Certificate Application and Sworn Notarized Statement
* Formal written (or typed) request for birth certificate – A sample can be found at the end of this section.


IMPORTANT INFORMATION WHEN YOU MAIL IN THE REQUEST


When requests for birth certificates are mailed in, you must submit a sworn notarized statement along with the application.  You will see that this statement is attached to the standard application.  A Notary is someone who is legally empowered to witness signatures and certify a document's validity.


There are many businesses that have a notary on staff.  
One suggestion is the UPS Store at 660 4th Street, San Francisco, CA 94107.  
Phone: (415) 615-6968.  
There is a $10 fee for the notarized service – Fees may vary from place to place.


To get a notarized statement, you need documentation of your identity, age, and legal presence.  If you don’t yet have any personal identification, try to get a statement from your probation or parole officer that testifies to your name, age, birth date, address, and parents’ legal names.  Also, bring a close family member who has I.D. with you to the notary.  The notary may allow your family member to “verbally identify” you. 


Remember, to mail in a birth certificate request, you need to include four things: The application, fee, notarized statement, and written letter.
 
It takes about 60 days for a mailed in request to be processed.


Born Outside of California


Call the Recorder’s Office in the county in which you were born and ask several questions:
* Can a family member with identification who still lives in the county request the birth certificate?  What is the application process for an in-person request?
* How much does it cost? How long does it take to receive it?
* What is the application process for a mailed-in request?


________________


Sample Letter Requesting Birth Certificate If You Are Mailing in the Request
Date


To Whom It May Concern:
This is a formal request to receive a CERTIFIED COPY of my birth certificate. My legal name is Kelly Linda Jones and I was born in San Francisco County in 1971.
Enclosed is my payment for $25 and the application for a birth certificate which includes the sworn notarized statement.
Please mail the birth certificate to:
Kelly Jones
850 Bryant Street
San Francisco, CA  94103
This is my permanent residence.
I can be reached at (415) 555-5555 if you have questions about any of the submitted information.
Thank you in advance for your assistance with this request.
Sincerely, 
Kelly Jones


________________


Insert PDF 4 (page 3 of pdf)
________________
PDF 4 continued (page 4 of pdf)
________________
PDF 4 continued (page 5 of pdf)
________________
________________


California State Driver’s License, ID, and DMV Print Out
COSTS:
* Actual fees may have increased. Find out about current rates before you go to DMV.
* You can pay with cash, check, money order or debit, no credit cards are accepted.
* California Driver’s License:        $33
* California Identification:         $28 – Free for seniors age 62+
* Reduced Fee ID Card:                $8 – If you meet income requirements, a qualified agency will give you a Verification for Reduced Fee form (DL 937).  
* DMV Printout (H-6 Printout) (Covers 10-Year History):         $5
* Reissue Fees: If you are renewing a suspended or revoked license, expect to pay reissue fees. Fees vary. Call DMV to get the specifics.


San Francisco DMV Office
1377 Fell Street at Baker Street in the Haight/Western Addition Neighborhood
San Francisco, CA 94117
(800) 777-0133
Daly City DMV Office
1500 Sullivan Avenue
Daly City, CA 94015
(800) 777-0133


Save yourself a lot of time by making an online appointment for all DMV matters:
1. Find a computer with Internet access. Go to www.dmv.ca.gov
2. You’ll see several yellow tabs. Click the one that says “online services.”
3. You’ll see a menu of several options, glance down to “Appointments.”
4. Now you’re at “Appointment System.” Click the middle bar “office visit appointment.” 
5. Next, click the “Map CA DMV Offices” bar. Then click the county you desire.
6. Next, let them know how many items you need to address. Click 1, 2 or 3 items, depending on how many things you need to do.
7. Unless you are registering a car or boat, click the first box to get your state issue I.D. or CDL and a printout of your driving record.
8. Scroll down and enter in your customer information – name and phone number.
9. Finally, click “submit.”  
10. A date and time for your appointment will show up on the screen.  


If you choose to drop into a DMV Office, call (800) 777-0133 for office hour information for the San Francisco DMV or other offices. Or, you can go online to www.dmv.ca.gov and click the yellow tab that says “offices.” Follow the prompts to get local office information.


WHAT YOU NEED TO GET YOUR DRIVER’S LICENSE OR IDENTIFICATION CARD


Call the CA DMV or check the website to get additional verification information.


Proof of Birth date and Legal Presence
* Birth certificate or Passport
* Certificate of Naturalization or Citizenship
* Certification from California Department of Corrections.  
* Valid I-94 stamped "Refugee," "Parole or Parolee," "Asylee," or Section 207, Section 208, Section 209, Section 212d(2), HP or PIP




Social Security Card Verification
* A Social Security Card is needed if you are applying for CDL for the first time.  
* For duplicates, you just need to verify the number they have in the system.  
* A Medicare or U.S Armed Forces Identification Card is also acceptable.
* To ensure a smooth DMV visit, prepare to bring your Social Security or other acceptable card.


Proof of Address
You need to bring proof of a stable residence or P.O. Box number. Bring official mail that has been sent to the address where you are staying – try to bring the most official piece of mail possible. Good examples of proof of address are letters from hospitals or healthcare providers that aren’t too old, parole or probation correspondence, or a cell phone statement.


In addition to paying fees and providing various documents, you will need to fill out forms or make specific record requests:
* Driver’s License: Complete form “DL 44.”
* California ID:  Complete form “DL 44.”
* Printed DMV Record:  Request an “H-6, Printed DMV Record” from the customer service agent.


HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO GET YOUR LICENSE OR IDENTIFICATION CARD?
Your license and California I.D. will be mailed within 60 Days.  The DMV will issue you temporary, paper CDL or ID’s.  This will serve as your primary identification until the hard copy arrives.  Make sure the address that is on file will still be active within 60 days.


General Information
* Online appointments will save you a lot of time.  Go to the website to schedule an appointment.
* Do not go to DMV unless you have all of the required application documents.
* If you have any holds or suspensions, or your license was at some point revoked, you will not be able to immediately get a CDL. You must take care of the disqualifying issues first.  
* Even if your license is suspended or revoked, you can still get a California ID.
* REMEMBER: The CA DMV works closely with other city and state departments like Department of Child Support Services, for example.  If you have outstanding payments owed to another state department or another unresolved matter, you will need to take care of that business first.
* If you run into a problem trying to get your CDL, get your California ID and request a DMV print out so you can discuss the issues that are preventing you from getting the license.
* The California DMV has available and responsive customer service agents.  Call (800) 777-0133.  After you select the language you want to communicate in, press 0 (zero) for the operator.
* If your license has been expired for 6 months to 4 years, you will need to take a written renewal test before you can get your CDL.  There are 36 questions on this test and you may answer no more than 5 incorrectly.  It costs $5 to take the test unless this is the first time you are taking it and you pass the first time.
* If your license has been expired for more than 4 years, you will have to take the driving and written tests.
________________


Social Security Card
COST:  Free of Charge


WHERE TO GET A SOCIAL SECURITY CARD IN SAN FRANCISCO
Social Security Office (Mission Neighborhood)
1098 Valencia Street (at 22nd Street), San Francisco, CA 94110
Phone: (800) 772-1213 TTY: (800) 325-0778
Office Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm. Call to confirm schedule.
Social Security Office (Downtown San Francisco)
90 - 7th Street, Annex First Floor (at Mission Street), San Francisco, CA 94103 
Phone:  (800) 772-1213 TTY: (800) 325-0778
Office Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm.  Call to confirm schedule.
San Francisco Office (Financial District)
560 Kearny Street
San Francisco, CA 94108
Phone:  (800) 772-1213 TTY: (800) 325-0778
Office Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm.  Call to confirm schedule.
WHAT YOU NEED TO GET A SOCIAL SECURITY CARD
* A completed SS-5 Form.  A sample form follows.
* Documentation that proves your U.S citizenship and Identity: No photocopies are accepted.
* U.S. Driver’s license or State Issued Identification Card
* U.S. Passport
* Certificate of Naturalization or a Certificate of Citizenship
* Birth Certificate
   * If you do not have these specific documents or cannot get a replacement for them within 10 days, you can also provide:
* Employee ID card
* School ID card
* Health insurance card (not a Medicare card)
* U.S. military ID card
* Adoption decree
If you are not a U.S. citizen, Social Security must see your current U.S. immigration documents. 
* Acceptable documents from the Department of Homeland Security include your: 
* Form I-551 (includes machine-readable immigrant visa with your unexpired foreign passport)
* I-94 with your unexpired foreign passport
* Work permit card (I-766 or I-688B)


Sample application documents follow this page.
________________
Insert PDF 5
________________
Insert PDF 5 continued
________________
Insert PDF 5 continued
________________
Insert PDF 5 continued
________________
Insert PDF 5 continued
________________
________________


Record of Arrest and Prosecution (RAP) Sheet


Law enforcement agencies will use your RAP Sheet to make future legal determinations, if you have any additional contacts with the criminal justice system. You are entitled to review your RAP Sheet, and you are responsible for making sure it is accurate. There are three different kinds of RAP Sheets (local, state, and federal). The following pages include copies of the applications and letters that you will need to submit in order to get each one.


Where to get your RAP sheet for City & County of San Francisco


COST:         Free (Cost subject to change)


ADDRESS:        San Francisco Hall of Justice
                Identification Bureau, Room 475
                850 Bryant Street
                San Francisco, CA  94103


OFFICE HOURS:          Monday through Friday, 8:00am – 3:00pm




Information about getting your RAP sheet from the State of California and from the FBI follows this page.
________________


Insert PDF 6 (page 1 only—application)
________________
Insert PDF 7
________________
How to get your FBI record


You are allowed to request a copy of your own FBI Identification Record for personal review or to challenge information on the Record, as well as for other reasons.
The process involves completing a cover letter, submitting a fingerprint card, and including payment.
1. Complete the Applicant Information Form (see following page).
2. Fingerprint Card: Get a set of your fingerprints (original card – no copies), with your name and date of birth on the card. Use standard fingerprint form (FD-258, below).
3. Include $18 U.S. in the form of a certified check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States. Note: No cash, personal checks, or business checks will be accepted.
4. Mail to:
FBI CJIS Division – Record Request
1000 Custer Hollow Road
Clarksburg, West Virginia  26306


How to correct your FBI record
An individual may challenge the information contained in the FBI Identification Record by contacting the original agency that submitted the information to the FBI. These agencies will be able to provide their guidelines for correction of the record.
________________


Insert PDF 8
________________
Insert PDF 9:  Page 2 of PDF here
________________
Insert PDF 9:  Page 1 of PDF here 
________________
Insert PDF 10
________________
Insert PDF 11 (page 1 only—Did You Remember To……?)
________________
Your Right to Vote
Generally, anyone is eligible to vote in the United States if the person is a U.S. Citizen, a resident of the particular County in which an election is being held, and at least 18 years old at the time of the next election.
In California, you can vote if you’re on probation or if you’re in county jail for a misdemeanor conviction. You cannot vote if you have a felony conviction for which you are in prison, on parole, on post-release community supervision, or serving a sentence in county jail under PC § 1170(h). Once you complete your sentence and supervision, your voting rights are automatically restored. All you have to do is to register to vote. 
To register to vote in San Francisco, complete a voter registration form by contacting the San Francisco Department of Elections.  If you live outside of San Francisco, contact the California Secretary of State, Elections Division. These offices will mail you a voter registration form upon request.
San Francisco Department of Elections
City Hall
1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 48
San Francisco, CA  94102
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Phone: (415) 554-4375 Fax: (415) 554-7344
www.sfgov.org/election
________________
California Secretary of State's Office
Elections Division
1500 11th Street, 5th Floor
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: (916) 657-2166 Fax: (916) 653-3214
Email: elections@sos.ca.gov


You should re-register to vote any time you have made a change to your permanent address, your legal name, your political party, have completed a felony prison sentence and are no longer on parole, or have completed parole. Registration forms are also available at any DMV office, Post Office, or Public Library.
If you are incarcerated in San Francisco County Jail and have questions about voting, you can contact Prisoner Legal Services or ask your Public Defender or attorney for information.
Other Resources:
California Secretary of State
Elections Division
1500 11th Street, 5th Floor
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 1 (800) 345 VOTE
________________


ACLU of Northern California
39 Drumm Street
San Francisco, CA 94111
Phone:        (415) 293-6325
________________



Benefits
Depending on your current income and other factors, you may be eligible to receive government benefits to help you meet your basic needs. Having a record does not necessarily disqualify you from receiving benefits. If you think you might be eligible, apply as soon as you are able.
County Adult Assistance Program (CAAP)


County Adult Assistance Program (CAAP) consists of four separate, independent programs to better meet the needs of adult residents of San Francisco. These four programs are: PAES (Personal Assisted Employment Services), CALM (Cash Assistance Linked to Medi-Cal), SSIP (Supplemental Security Income Pending), and GA (General Assistance). Individuals who are receiving SSI are not eligible for CAAP. Individuals who have timed-out from CalWORKs are not eligible for CAAP unless they've met the conditions for an Executive Director's exception as determined by their CalWORKs worker. Individuals with minor children must apply for CalWORKs for benefits that include CalFresh (formerly Food Stamps) or cash grants. Ongoing CAAP benefits are issued once a month (on the first of the month). Money management is important to ensure essential expenses (such as housing, utilities, and necessary bills) are paid first. A person on parole in another county may be eligible for CAAP when the county of responsibility allows the client to live in San Francisco and the client intends to live in San Francisco. A person on probation in another county may be eligible for CAAP only if the client is allowed to reside in San Francisco by his Probation Officer.


PAES
The Personal Assisted Employment Services (PAES) Program provides employable adults with the education, training, and supportive services necessary to gain lasting employment and become self-sufficient. Individuals with a verified disabling condition that is expected to last less than 12 consecutive months in duration are also eligible for PAES; however, they are exempt from participation in employment-related activities and services until such time as their temporary disabling condition has improved. PAES participants may also be exempted from employment-related activities on the basis of age. PAES applicants must have lived in San Francisco for 30 continuous days prior to the time of application. The introductory Appraisal Period begins when the participant signs a PAES Participant Agreement. Work Experience activities during the Appraisal Period are Group Employment Preparation (GEP) sessions, and a number of Work Assignment hours (depending on the grant amount) or an acceptable, qualifying substitute (employment, approved Vocational Training, ESL, G.E.D. preparation, Job Search because of a medical restriction, etc.). Participants may be excused from GEP if they are engaged in an approved activity and there is either a verified conflict in schedule or the other activity requires more than 16 ½ hours per week. All PAES participants performing employment-related activities receive a monthly Muni Fast Pass or tokens. Individuals who have successfully completed the Appraisal Period may begin working with an Employment Specialist to develop an Employment Plan. The Work Assignment (or qualifying substitute) continues until the Plan is signed. The individualized, mutually agreed-upon Employment Plan may include: job training and career counseling, supervised job search, G.E.D. preparation & Vocational English as a Second Language (VESL) classes, vocational training courses and vocational rehabilitation, skill-building workshops for those able to work in a supported setting, various employment projects, combining temporary paid employment with job-seeking services, and substance abuse and mental health treatment. Supportive services available to PAES participants in Employment Plans include vocational assessment, substance abuse and mental health counselors on-site, vocational rehabilitation counseling, ancillary expenses for clothing, tools, supplies, etc., and Muni Fast Passes or tokens. PAES employment services are limited to 27 months, with a possible extension of 6 months, if such additional services are likely to lead to employment. There is a 60-day sanction for eligibility requirement-related failures and a 90-day sanction for Employment Plan-related failures. PAES clients who are discontinued for fraud are ineligible for PAES for the duration of the fraud sanction.


CALM
Cash Assistance Linked to Medi-Cal (CALM) is for individuals and their spouses who are receiving Medi-Cal benefits because they are either aged or disabled, but do not currently qualify for SSI. There are no sanction penalties for non-cooperation (except for fraud). One worker at 1440 Harrison Street provides both Medi-Cal benefits and cash assistance; CalFresh workers are also available at the same location. 


SSIP
Supplemental Security Income Pending (SSIP) is for individuals who have medical verification that they have a disability which either has lasted, or is likely to last, at least 12 consecutive months. Muni tokens for verified medical appointments are also provided. There are no sanction penalties for non-cooperation (except for fraud). SSI Case Management is available and continuing SSIP cases are handled by specialized workers. SSIP clients who are discontinued for fraud are ineligible for SSIP for the duration of the fraud sanction.


GA
General Assistance (GA) remains the County safety net program for indigent adults. It is designed for individuals who do not qualify for CALM and SSIP, and who either do not choose to participate in PAES or are not eligible to receive PAES. In exchange for the GA benefit package, able-bodied GA recipients are expected to perform a number of Workfare hours (depending on the grant amount) or an acceptable substitute. GA recipients performing Workfare receive a monthly Muni Fast Pass or tokens. Program requirement failures without good cause may result in a 30-day sanction. GA clients who are discontinued for fraud are ineligible to apply for CAAP for the duration of the fraud sanction.


AM I ELIGIBLE?
Basic CAAP eligibility criteria are as follows, but are not limited to: 
* You must live in San Francisco and you must have resided in SF for 15 continuous days (30 days for PAES) prior to the time of application; 
* You must intend to reside in SF; 
* You must have the ability/right to reside in SF; 
* You must be 18 years old to apply unless you are applying with your parent(s) and are not eligible for CalWORKs, or are legally married or divorced (except when the marriage has been annulled); 
* If you live with your husband/wife or domestic partner, you must both apply, unless he/she receives SSI;
* Non-U.S. citizens must prove legal status in the U.S., unless you have a terminal illness with a verified life expectancy of 6 months or less; and
* You must also meet other financial requirements.


PRESUMPTIVE ELIGIBILITY (P.E.) PERIOD
Presumptive eligibility (P.E.) of one (1) week or more (P.E. period) may be granted if you are apparently eligible for CAAP. Your P.E. benefits may be in the form of bus tokens, shelters or, under special circumstances, cash benefits. During the P.E. period, you will be expected to provide the necessary documentation for your worker to verify your eligibility to one of the County Adult Assistance Programs and to comply with other Program requirements, which your worker will discuss with you.


YOU MUST APPLY FOR THESE BENEFITS IN PERSON:
* For CAAP (PAES, SSIP, GA eligibility) and benefits information, go to 1235 Mission Street (between 8th and 9th Streets).
* For CALM eligibility and benefits information, go to 1440 Harrison Street (between 10th and 11th Streets)


CalWORKs
If you are an adult with dependent children, you may be eligible for CalWORKs. CalWORKs provides financial support and a variety of services to help you get back on your feet and into the workforce. An employment specialist will work with you to follow an individualized employment plan. Even after you have found a job and become self-sufficient, there may be follow-up services available to help you stay employed and move to better paying work. If you participate in CalWORKs, you may receive:


* Financial support (up to 60 months for parent, and to age 18 for eligible children)
* Refugee cash assistance and assistance to noncitizen victims of trafficking, domestic violence, and other serious crimes
* Job preparation, assessment, training, and employment counseling
* Education and job search activities
* CalFresh (Formerly Food Stamps)
* Medi-Cal 
* Subsidized child care
* Transportation allowance
* Financial assistance with uniforms, books, or other support needed to participate in Welfare to Work activities
* Counseling for mental health, substance abuse, and domestic violence issues
* Homeless assistance for move-in costs of securing a new residence
* Payment of up to two months of back rent to prevent eviction 


To apply, or inquire about eligibility, contact:
SF Human Services Agency-CalWORKs
170 Otis Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103
Hours: 8:00am - 5:00pm 
(415) 557-5723
________________


Food Stamps (now CalFresh)
CalFresh, formerly known as the Food Stamp Program, is a government program designed to eliminate hunger and improve the health of low-income families and individuals by providing funds to access a nutritious diet. 


Income limits (below 200 percent of the federal poverty level) and some non-financial eligibility factors determine who qualifies for CalFresh benefits. In San Francisco, CalFresh is distributed via Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) card, which may be used at grocery stores and farmers’ markets.  Homeless, elderly, or disabled individuals qualify to use CalFresh at dozens of restaurants across San Francisco.


Those with criminal records, including a drug felony, may be eligible to receive CalFresh benefits. Being on probation or parole does not impact your CalFresh eligibility. However, you cannot be a fleeing felon (i.e., have a warrant) or be in violation of your probation or parole and qualify for CalFresh.


You may apply for CalFresh in person, by mail, or online. If you are found eligible for the CalFresh program, you can begin receiving benefits as soon as three days after you apply. Apply online at www.MyBenefitsCalWIN.org, or call our office at (415) 558-4700 if you have any questions. Application forms are available in English, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, and Vietnamese. You may request a new application form, or submit a completed application to: 


CalFresh
Phone:  (415) 558-4700
Hours:  Monday-Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm


Mailing Address 
P.O. Box 7988
San Francisco, CA 94120 


Physical Locations
- 1235 Mission Street, between 8th and 9th Streets
- 1440 Harrison Street, between 10th and 11th Streets, for those also applying for Medi-Cal
- 170 Otis Street, on the west side of Van Ness Avenue, for families applying for CalWORKs
- 3120 Mission Street, one block south of Cesar Chavez Street


Online Application:
www.MyBenefitsCalWIN.org
 










________________


Social Security Administration Benefits        
The Social Security Administration (SSA) is a federal agency that administers Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI), among other programs. Benefits may be available to adults and children (if child’s disability started before age 22).


SSI or SSI/SSP provides monthly payments to aged, blind and disabled people who have little or no resources and income. Applicants need not have worked or paid Social Security taxes to be eligible. 
Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) provides benefits to aged, blind and disabled people who have worked a certain number of years and paid Social Security taxes. The income limitations that apply to SSI/SSP do not apply to SSDI.
To find out more about these programs, call 1-800-772-1213, Monday-Friday, 7:00am-7:00pm.
However, it is generally best to go in person to a Social Security District Office.


All offices’ Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm


San Francisco District Office, Downtown 
90 7th Street, Annex 1st floor (7th and Mission St.)
1 (866) 964-5051


San Francisco District Office, Mission
1098 Valencia Street (Valencia & 22nd St.)
1 (866) 755-6323


San Francisco District Office, Financial District
560 Kearny Street (California & Sacramento St.)


Applying for SSI or SSDI may be time-consuming. Seek out assistance from a service provider listed in this Guide, or contact the Volunteer Legal Services Program of the Bar Association of San Francisco, by calling (415) 575-3130, or by dropping by Tuesdays between 1:00pm and 4:00pm at 1360 Mission Street, 2nd floor.
Medicaid Benefits – These are state-run benefits for low-income people.  It covers children, the aged, blind, and/or disabled and other people who are also eligible for Supplemental Security Income.  Contact the Social Security Administration for information on enrollment.
Medicare Benefits – These are medical benefits for adults 65 and older.  If you or your spouse worked and paid Medicare taxes for at least ten years, you may be eligible for Medicare Benefits.
Contact the Social Security Administration immediately at the above number to understand enrollment, eligibility, and benefits.  You can also call the Medicare Helpline at 1-800-633-4227 for information.
________________


Veteran’s Benefits
If you served in the US Military, you may be eligible for Veteran’s benefits. Start by contacting the following key offices to see if you may qualify.


County Veteran Service Office
If you have never filed for benefits before or you are unsure where to start, you can contact Veterans Service Office in San Francisco.


San Francisco County Veterans Service Office
Location: 27B Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102
Phone: (415) 503-2000, (800) 807-5799 
Fax: (415) 503-2010
Hours: 9:00am to 12:00pm; 1:00pm to 4:00pm
________________


Location: 4150 Clement Street, Bldg. 2, Room 169, San Francisco, CA  94121
Phone: (415) 379-5613
Fax: (415) 750-2256
Hours: Monday – Thursday, 7:30am to 4:00pm


Swords to Plowshares 
Swords to Plowshares is a community-based organization dedicated to supporting veterans.


1060 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone: (415) 252-4788
www.swords-to-plowshares.org



San Francisco Vet Center
The San Francisco Vet Center connects veterans to services.  Our primary service is individual psychotherapy for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Depression, and Anxiety.  Other services are referred to the V.A. Downtown Clinic or the V.A. Medical Center.  


505 Polk Street
San Francisco, CA 94102
Phone: (415) 441-5051
Fax: (415) 441-5092
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm, and by special arrangement


San Francisco VA Medical Center 
4150 Clement Street
San Francisco, CA 94121-1598
Phone: (415) 221-4810
Member services office: (877) 487-2838 
www.sanfrancisco.va.gov
________________




The Affordable Care Act (aca)


The Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) was signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. The law expands health coverage to all U.S. citizens and Legal Permanent Residents.  If your employer does not provide health coverage, or if you are unemployed, you can sign up for health coverage through Covered California online at www.coveredca.com/medi-cal



Medi-Cal Overview
Medi-Cal is free or low-cost health coverage for children and adults with limited income and resources.


Who can qualify for Medi-Cal?
Medi-Cal covers low-income adults, families with children, seniors, persons with disabilities, children in foster care as well as former foster youth up to age 26, and pregnant women. 


What is the difference between Covered California and Medi-Cal?
Medi-Cal is health coverage, just like the coverage from Covered California health plans. If you qualify for Medi-Cal, your health care will be free or at a lower cost to you and your family. Medi-Cal plans and Covered California plans both offer a similar set of important benefits, called “essential health benefits."


How can I apply for Medi-Cal?
You can apply online at www.coveredca.com. This single application will let you know if you qualify for Covered California or Medi-Cal coverage. 
If you need help applying or have questions, you can contact a trained Certified Enrollment Counselor (CEC) for free.  Search a list of local Certified Enrollment Counselors (www.coveredca.com/get-help/local/ ) or call (800) 300-1506.


If you live in San Francisco, you can apply several ways:
* Phone:  415-863-9892 or 855-355-5757  (Monday-Friday 8:00am-5:00pm)
* In Person:   Human Services Agency, 1440 Harrison Street  or 1235 Mission Street,  San Francisco, CA 94103 (Monday-Friday; 8:00 am-5:00pm)
* Intranet: www.mybenefitscalwin.org  (available 24 hours 7 days a week)


Otherwise, if you need to find county offices outside of San Francisco,  check the following: www.dhcs.ca.gov/services/medi-cal/Pages/CountyOffices.aspx



After Applying
If you qualify for Medi-Cal, you will get a benefits identification card (BIC) in the mail, and get a list of available health plans to choose from.  With the card, you can begin to use  your health care as a new Medi-Cal member. 


In some cases after you apply, the county may need clarify or get more information from you so that we can make sure you qualify for Medi-Cal or other affordable health coverage. 


If you have applied and haven’t received a benefits issue card (BIC), please do not apply again but contact the Medi-Cal either on the phone or in person. 




Most individuals who are unemployed or do not receive medical coverage from their employer can receive health coverage under the Affordable Care Act.  
Medi-Cal 
* Benefits: Provides medical, dental and vision coverage.  
* Cost: Depending on income, Medi-Cal may be free.
* Eligibility: Services are available to low income adults and children.
* For information or to apply: (415) 777-9992 or (888) 558-5858. 
* For information on Medi-Cal for low-income adults, children, families, or long-term convalescent care, 
   * Phone:  415-863-9892 or 855-355-5757  (Monday-Friday 8:00am-5:00pm)
   * In Person:   Human Services Agency, 1440 Harrison Street  or 1235 Mission Street San Francisco, CA 94103 (Monday-Friday; 8:00 am-5:00pm)

OTHER AVAILABLE Healthcare Coverage in San Francisco
If you do not qualify for health coverage under the Affordable Care Act (for example, if you are undocumented), San Francisco has a strong network of primary care clinics and connections to healthcare for almost all residents of San Francisco. Connecting to Healthy San Francisco is the first best step to get connected to the care that you need. www.healthysanfrancisco.org 

Healthy San Francisco

You may qualify for Healthy San Francisco if you are ALL of the following:
* A San Francisco resident who can provide proof of San Francisco residency;
* Uninsured for the last 90 days;
* Not eligible for public insurance program (Medi-Cal, Healthy Families, or Healthy Kids™);
* Between the ages of 18 and 64; and 
* Living within program income guidelines.
Healthy San Francisco is available to San Francisco residents regardless of immigration status, employment status, or pre-existing medical conditions.
HOW TO APPLY FOR HEALTHY SAN FRANCISCO
STEP 1:  Determine if you qualify to apply for the program by contacting Healthy San Francisco
* Call the Healthy San Francisco Hotline at (415) 615-4588, M - F, 8:30am to 5:30pm
* Call the San Francisco City Information Line at 3-1-1 (San Francisco only), 24/7
* Email info@healthysanfrancisco.org 
* Write to Healthy San Francisco, 201 3rd Street, 7th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94103.
STEP 2:  Make an appointment to apply (All applications are done in-person. No Drop-In services.)
* Call a specific participating clinic to set up an appointment (listing available online: www.healthysanfrancisco.org).
* Call the Hotline to select a clinic and get a phone number to make your appointment.
* When you go to your appointment, you will need to bring all required documents:
   * Personal identification
   * Proof of residency
   * Proof of household income and assets
STEP 3:  Complete a Healthy San Francisco Application.
Only a Certified Application Assistor can complete and submit a Healthy San Francisco application. If you qualify, you will receive a Summary Sheet with instructions on how to access medical services. You will then receive a Participant ID Card and a Participant Handbook in the mail. If you are required to pay a fee, you will receive a bill in the mail within the next month.  
Healthy Kids
* Benefits: Provides medical, dental, and vision coverage.  
* Cost: Depending on income and family size, Healthy Kids & Young Adults members pay either $48 or $108 a year. Financial assistance is available.
* Eligibility: Services are available to uninsured individuals and those younger than 18 years of age; San Francisco residents, U.S. citizens, nationals, eligible qualified immigrants, or undocumented immigrants; individuals not eligible for no-cost Medi-Cal or the Healthy Families program; individuals who meet the income guidelines.
* For information or to apply:  (415) 777-9992 or (888) 558-5858.
Healthy Workers
* Benefits:  Healthy workers is ONLY currently offered to ELIGIBLE providers of In-Home Support Services (IHSS) and a select category of temporary, exempt, as-needed employees of the City and County of San Francisco. Healthy Workers members have access to many medical services through the San Francisco Department of Public Health (DPH). Dental services may be available.
* Cost:  The cost is $3 per month and it is automatically deducted from paychecks.
* Providers for In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS): to find out if you're eligible for Healthy Workers or to apply, contact the IHSS Public Authority at (415) 243-4477.
* Temporary, exempt, as-needed employees of the City and County of San Francisco should contact the Department of Human Resources at (415) 557-4942 for more information.
________________

Income
Your Identity
You need to know about your Identity.
When you are released, take steps to understand if your identity is in trouble:
Do you have any warrants?  Get a copy of your RAP sheet to review.
Do you have any outstanding fines or payments?
Do you have any outstanding charges associated with child support or court rulings to pay damages or restitution, and/or court or defense costs?  Uncover this information with the help of your probation or parole agent.
Credit
Conduct a credit background check on yourself.
The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FRCA) requires several nationwide companies to provide you with a free copy of your credit report, at your request, once every 12 months.
You can order a free credit report online:
* www.annualcreditreport.com
Money
BANKING
Start “banking” your money by opening a savings or checking account. Avoid check cashing and payday loan businesses, because they charge fees to cash your checks and loan you money. Learn about how to become a “banked San Franciscan.” Go to www.bankonsf.org.
To open an account, you will need:
* Government issued photo ID like a State driver’s license.
* A utility bill or other official piece of mail that proves your address.
* If you have it, also bring your social security card/number. (You do not need a social security number to open a checking account, but you will need it to open a savings account.)
Many people are nervous about opening accounts because of prior financial problems – bounced checks or overdrawn fees. Bank on San Francisco is a service to help people deal with past banking obstacles and to help you understand the value of banking your money.
To open an account, you can go to a variety of places that are partners in San Francisco’s Bank On San Francisco program:
* Bank of America
* Bank of the West
* Chase
* Citibank
* Community Trust.  A division of Self-Help Federal Credit Union
* Northeast Community Federal Credit Union
* Patelco Credit Union
* Redwood Credit Union
* San Francisco Federal Credit Union
* Spectrum Federal Credit Union
* Union Bank of California
* East West Bank
* US Bank
* Wells Fargo
Asset Building
EARN breaks the cycle of poverty by matching the savings of low-wage workers and helping them invest in assets that build wealth, creating a cycle of prosperity across generations.  
When you invest money in an EARN account, they will match your money so that it grows more quickly.  
Individual Development Account (IDA)—An IDA is a matched savings account for low-wage workers to save towards an asset goal. Please note requirements may vary per agency.


Starter Account—The EARN Starter Account is your start to creating the spark to seeing your savings grow.  With each $20 deposit, you will steadily earn Rewards each month.


Firefly Account—The Firefly Account is designed for new savers.  It gives financial incentives and coaching to help you turn saving into a habit you’ve been wanting to build.


Triple Boost Account —Want to save for your child’s education?  Receive $3 for every $1 you save for your child’s education.


EARN 
235 Montgomery Street, Suite 470
San Francisco, CA 94104
Phone:  (415) 217-3660
(415) 830-3003
Fax: (415) 217-3663 
info@earn.org
www.earn.org
Money Management
When you know where your money goes, it's easier to pay your bills on time, save money each month, and find financial freedom.
To get started, think about your money. Money should go towards things you need, things you want and towards your debts or into savings. 
Some expenses are required every month. A place to live, a way to get around, and nutritious food to eat are things you can’t live without. Every month you make rent or mortgage payments and spend money on utilities as well as transportation. Many people pay for different types of insurance and some pay for school fees and loans.
These expenses are things you can’t do without. Ideally, this should be half of your budget. If you lose your job, or have an unexpected emergency expense, these are the things that you will still have to spend your money on.
Do you enjoy watching cable television, shopping, or eating in restaurants? While these aren’t things you need, it’s your life and you should enjoy it with a budget that fits you best.  
The best budget includes money to meet your needs and your wants as well as save for your future. When you put money into your savings, you can better plan for your retirement or education for your family. 
Credit cards, payday lenders, and rent-to-own furniture stores charge very high interest rates. It’s important to pay down these debts first so that your savings can go farther.
If you need help getting started, build a budget and seek credit counseling to take control of your money!  
Credit Counseling
If you find that you are so indebted that you need help, contact a reputable non-profit credit counseling agency. Do not fall for the many predatory scams that are advertised as debt counseling. One well-known and reputable non-profit credit counseling agency is Money Management International (MMI). It provides credit counseling as well as other financial educational services. 
Counseling is also available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by phone:  1 (866) 889-9347. Website: www.moneymanagement.org


Consumer Credit Counseling Service of San Francisco
Consumer Credit Counseling Service of San Francisco (CCCS) is a non-profit service and a member of the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC).  By providing comprehensive financial counseling and education, we help consumers achieve financial independence through debt reduction, homeownership, and improved money management skills. As a financial resource center, we offer the tools to help our clients set and achieve financial goals. Whether you need immediate help to pay off debt and avoid bankruptcy or you just need guidance in designing a spending and savings plan or buying a first home, we offer a variety of programs and services that put you in control of your financial future. There is no charge for money management, debt, or housing counseling services. Debt Management Plan participants pay a small monthly administrative fee to cover the cost of handling their accounts; the fee never exceeds $35 per month.   www.cccssf.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Staff
Phone: (800) 777-7526
Email: info@cccssf.org
Intake Hours: Monday - Friday, 8am-5pm
Location: 595 Market Street, 15th Floor, San Francisco, CA  94104
Notes:  Please call first to schedule an appointment.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Client fees: Free and low cost. 
Eligible Population: All individual 18 years of age and older
Faith Based: No.








Direct Services: Debt Management; Credit Counseling; Financial Counseling; Homeownership Counseling; Workshops.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Savings
Saving is important because having it (whatever the amount) brings you peace of mind and the ability to pay for things without using credit. 
Start Saving Now.
Even if you think you can’t afford it – Even if it is only a few dollars out of each paycheck.
What’s next?
If you’re going to start saving, you’ll need to have a budget (for assistance building your budget, check out The Beehive, online at http://capetown.thebeehive.org/content/86/121). Use these seven steps to make a successful financial plan:
1. Start as early as possible
2. Set goals (short- and long-term)
3. Tell your family members or others with whom you share finances
4. Support your plan with a practical, working budget
5. Do your homework – think about your options and be flexible
6. Put your plan in writing
7. Review your plan every month or two
Budgets are just the beginning. Your plan won’t make much sense unless you also learn to build credit, save, and invest wisely. 
The best way to make a budget for the future is to figure out how you spend your money now. First, look at where your money comes from and where it goes. Track all of your income and expenses for one month before creating your budget. You'll need to keep track of all of your purchases by writing them down by category in a notebook or holding on to receipts organized by category. 
Write down how much you spend in each category every month. Don't forget to include money that you save each month to help you meet your future goals. Be realistic about your budget, so that it's easy for you to follow.
Step One: Calculate Income 
Your income is the most important part of your budget—it allows you to take care of your family and yourself. You can put that money into a budget to figure out how you spend your money now and how to make the most of it in the future. 
Step Two: Calculate Expenses 
It is also important to know where you spend your money. Keeping track of your receipts and watching your statements is the best way to see how much you spend. If you already have a way of recording daily expenses, like a diary, use that information to fill out this section. 
Step Three: Calculate Assets 
There are many ways to look at your personal finances. You may own some things that are worth money that you never even considered. Think about things like electronics, jewelry, or even your home. These things, plus the money in your savings or investment accounts, are part of your assets. 
Step Four: Calculate Debt 
If you are struggling with debt, you can help yourself by making a plan. You might owe money to many people or companies, but you can make a big difference by writing down those numbers. Be honest with yourself about how much you owe. Once you know how much you have to pay, your budget plan can help you figure out how to get rid of your debt. 
Do not enter any account numbers in this section. You will only need to write the amount of money you owe.
Prioritizing Your Budget
If your budget shows you have more expenses than income, there are many ways to get out of trouble.  Remember, everyone has different priorities.  You will have to make the decisions that are right for you. 
What payments should I make first if I don’t have enough money to pay for all my bills?
1. First, pay off your necessary household expenses, such as rent or mortgage, utilities, and food. You need to pay your rent or mortgage to ensure you don’t get evicted or have your property foreclosed upon. Think about the health and safety of your family when making these types of decisions. 
2. Many utilities, such as the telephone company, electric company, and gas company, have programs to lower your bill if you qualify.  If you think you need assistance, contact your utility company. 
What should I do if I can pay off my monthly household expenses, but am having trouble paying off my loans?
1. Pay off the loan with the highest interest rate first to save on interest payments. 
2. Talk to your creditor. Your creditor may be willing to reduce your payments or change the terms to accommodate your situation by offering extensions, smaller payments over a longer period of time, or accepting partial payments.
3. Get a debt consolidation loan. Be cautious of this option. If loan fees and interest rates are too high, it may not be the best option for you.
4. Get professional advice. Reputable credit counselors can help you deal with your financial problems. Some organizations charge little or nothing for their services. 
5. Be cautious of companies that promise to fix your credit problems right away. Credit repair can be a long process that might take several years. 


















Sample Daily Spending Diary Worksheet
Use this budgeting tool to track where your money is going. You are far more likely to save your money when you see how much small purchases, like cigarettes and soda, can add up.
Day
	What did I spend my money on today?
	Sunday
	 
	Monday
	 
	Tuesday
	 
	Wednesday
	

	Thursday
	 
	Friday
	 
	Saturday
	 
	Monthly Payment Schedule
Track all of your income and expenses in a format similar to below for each month. Write out these columns, and space to write in your expenses and income. When the expense has been paid, enter the date in the paid column. 
Income
	Expenses/Bills
	Pay or
Due Date
	Amount Due
	Paid
	

	 
	

	

	

	

	 
	

	

	 
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	________________



Child Support 
The San Francisco Department of Child Support Services works to empower parents to provide for the economic needs of their children. The San Francisco Department of Child Support Services has an array of programs available to support you in meeting your obligations by providing the resources you need. www.SFGOV.org/dcss or www.facebook.com/sfdcss


Compromise of Arrears Program (COAP) 
The COAP program assists noncustodial parents with past due child support (arrears) owed to the State to compromise the debt by reducing the obligation that can be paid in a lump sum or in monthly payments over 36 months. 
Contact: Mary Mora, Child Support Officer/COAP Coordinator
Phone: (415) 356-2871 Fax: (415) 356-2773 Email: mary.mora@sfgov.org 
Address: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105


Customer Service Outreach (Community & Jail Outreach Program)
The Community and Jail Outrech  Program holds workshops with various groups in the community, including treatment facilities, to educate and assist noncustodial parents with their child support cases, obligations and issues. The Jail Outreach Program assists incarcerated non-custodial parents with outstanding child support issues that arise as a result of their incarceration.   
Contact: George J. Smith, III, Outreach & Customer Service Coordinator
Phone: (415) 356-2950 Fax: (415) 356-2773 Email: GeorgeJ.Smith@sfgov.org 
Address: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105


Noncustodial Parent Employment & Training Program (C-NET)
The C-NET program was developed to assist custodial and noncustodial parents with resolving barriers to employment, parenting, and their child support obligations.  
Contact: Tyrone Owens, Child Support Officer
Phone: (415) 356-2945 Fax: (415) 356-2774 Email: tyrone.owens@sfgov.org
Address: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105
________________



Housing

Permanent Housing
It is very difficult to find affordable housing in San Francisco. Start looking as early as possible, and utilize all of your resources. On August 13, 2014, San Francisco’s Fair Chance Ordinance went into effect. The Ordinance requires some housing providers and employers to review an individual’s qualifications before inquiring about their arrest and conviction record. This ordinance applies to employers with 20 or more employees, contractors with city contracts over $5,000, and housing providers that have received funding from the City. Employers, contractors and housing providers must also consider the relevance of an applicant’s convictions, how long ago those convictions occurred and evidence of rehabilitation. 
Finding Housing
Subsidized housing in San Francisco is controlled by the San Francisco Housing Authority (SFHA) through two separate programs: Public Housing and Section 8 Housing. The Public Housing program consists of buildings run by the Housing Authority where they review your application and are your landlord. Section 8 is a housing voucher with a certain amount of money on it that an individual can use to pay rent in subsidized housing or in private housing. 


Neither program is blocked for individuals who have past convictions, although there are basic eligibility requirements for both. Most subsidized permanent housing opportunities in San Francisco require that the person currently reside in San Francisco, and that the person have some form of income or benefits. Both of these qualifications usually require some form of proof and most housing applications require a showing of some kind of income. Beyond these basic requirements, each provider may have additional eligibility requirements (such as age for senior buildings or documented proof of a disability for certain program-related housing). Both Section 8 and Public Housing have waiting lists; these waiting lists are sometimes closed, meaning you cannot get on them, or open, meaning they are accepting applications. This can change constantly, so make sure to check back regularly here: www.sfha.org/Public-Housing-Information.html


You can help yourself be an attractive applicant by staying current with any requirements of any probation or parole and seeking out support or treatment that adds positive efforts to your history. It is important to always make sure you are honest in your application to the SFHA- if SFHA determines that you have lied at any point they can and will deny your application. Be sure to consider if you might be eligible for any government benefits, such as social security or general assistance, especially since some benefits programs are connected to shelter or housing. It is important to create as many options for yourself as you can.


Background Checks and Criminal Records
Most housing providers will do background checks—SF Housing Authority will conduct a criminal background check for Public Housing and for Section 8.  This will cover both eviction/unlawful detainer issues from past rental situations and criminal histories related to violence, assault, drug sales, sexual offenses, arson, etc.   There are certain cases where the Housing Department will automatically exclude you, and you are automatically denied from either public housing program:
- If you have to register as a lifetime sex offender in any state
- If you have ever been convicted of manufacturing methamphetamines in federally assisted housing OR
- If you have been evicted from a federally assisted housing program for drug related activity in the past 3 years if you are applying for public housing, or 5 years if you are applying for a Section 8 voucher. If you completed an SFHA approved drug treatment program this required ban may not apply to you. 


If you have a criminal record but have not been convicted of the above offenses, you may still be eligible for public housing. While the SFHA may reject your application if the background check reveals drug-related crimes, violent crimes, or any crimes that they feel may threaten the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the building, they are not automatically required to reject these applications. You should, therefore, apply to public housing even if you have past convictions, so long as they are not the ones mentioned above. 


It is important to keep in mind that if you are eligible for a Section 8 voucher for use at an apartment of your choice, private landlords will often run their own background checks, and may be stricter than SFHA in their unwillingness to overlook your criminal record. 


Mitigating Factors and Individual Circumstances
With convictions on your record, you can still make yourself an attractive candidate to SFHA. The SFHA will consider individual circumstances when reviewing a housing application from an individual with criminal records, so it is very important that you present this information to SFHA. Once you have moved to the top of the wait list, SFHA will ask you to sign a release form so they can run your background check. This is a good time to submit letters or declarations showing your individual circumstances to SFHA. 
Some examples of mitigating factors to present to SFHA are:
- Any positive changes you have made in your life since your arrests or convictions
- If you currently have a job, are enrolled or completed a job training program or school, or any participation in a treatment or rehabilitation program
- If you are a survivor of domestic violence, or if acts of violence against you led to your arrests or convictions
- If you have any dismissed convictions (note, dismissed convictions will come up on your SFHA background check, so even though they are dismissed, you must still be honest about them if asked, but make sure to note they are dismissed)
- Letters of support from probation officers, teachers, employers, treatment programs, neighbors, social workers or previous or prior landlords
- Evidence of a disability, if you have one, and how that disability is related to your criminal record 


Denials
If SFHA denies you admission to either program they have to notify you in writing and explain the reasons why you were denied, and they must also provide you a copy of your background check. A letter stating the denial is not the final word—you have the right to challenge the denial at an informal hearing. The letter with your initial denial will have information on how to request an informal hearing—it is important that you follow the instructions and request the hearing as it will be your opportunity to show that you are a good tenant. You have a right to an attorney or an informal advocate with you at the hearing, and a number of non-profit service providers can help. 


Be sure to apply for public housing or Section 8 voucher with the San Francisco Housing Authority if you are eligible. Periodically, the wait list for public housing in San Francisco opens, but may be closed when you first inquire. Check back frequently to see if it has reopened. Contact information for the San Francisco Housing Authority is below:
The San Francisco Housing Authority
Main Offices
1815 Egbert Avenue
San Francisco, California 94124
Tel: (415) 715-3280
TTY: (415) 467-6754
Fax: (415) 715-3296


Hours: 8:00am – 5:00pm
Website:  www.sfha.org
Monday – Friday
Customer Care Line 
(Wait List Status)
Tel: (415) 715-5200


Section 8 Department
Main Line
Tel: (415) 715-5200
Fax: (415) 715-3296


Also, there are many privately subsidized hotels and other apartment units that are available on a rolling basis. Inquire about open housing waiting lists at San Francisco Human Services Agency and community based organizations, and get help completing applications. Domestic violence shelters are available for individuals and families seeking safety from spouse, intimate partner, or other member of the household. 
Residential Treatment Facilities are listed in the Health & Treatment chapter. See that chapter if you are seeking residential treatment for substance abuse or mental health needs.


Certificate of Homelessness 
Some affordable housing opportunities may ask for a Certificate of Homelessness. You can obtain a Certificate of Homelessness from the Coalition on Homelessness. 
Coalition on Homelessness
468 Turk Street
San Francisco, CA 94102
(415) 346-3740
Certificates of Homelessness are issued Mondays and Wednesdays 9am – 12pm.
________________


Community Housing Partnership (CHP)
CHP is a San Francisco-based nonprofit organization.  CHP’s mission is to help homeless people secure housing and become self-sufficient.  CHP is an outcome-focused nonprofit that fulfills its mission by developing and managing high quality supportive housing and providing services to homeless individuals, seniors, and families to help them rebuild their lives and break the cycle of homelessness. www.chp-sf.org 


To Get Connected
Administration Mailing Address: 
Occupancy & Compliance
519 Ellis St., San Francisco, CA  94109
Phone: (415) 563-3205 x123
Email:  housingopportunities@chp-sf.org


For information regarding properties with and without wait lists please call 415-563-3205 x123, or visit www.chp-sf.org


Properties Without Waitlists:
684 Ellis Street
850 Broderick Street
650 Eddy Street
365 Fulton
25 Essex
3155 Scott
374 5th St.
810 Avenue D


Notes: The above properties do not maintain waitlists.  All vacancies are filled through referrals provided to CHP by programs through the HSA and DPH depending on the property.  Please visit the website for more info.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID. Program will assist client in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All currently homeless individuals and family members.  There are additional eligibility requirements per property that may include, but not limited to, annual income limits and verified disability.  Please visit the website for more information.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Permanent Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phone/Voicemail; Substance Abuse Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, and SSI; Employment Training; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children. Referral to other services as needed.
________________


Catholic Charities/CYO  Leland House
Cathonic Charities/CYO’s mission is to house homeless people with disabling HIV and AIDS. At Leland House, which provides permanent housing, we respond to residents on a Harm Reduction basis working with behaviors as they become difficult for others and when they  impede the safety of the resident themselves.  www.cccyo.org


To Get Connected
Contact Persons:  Timothy Quinn, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 405-2063 Fax: (415) 337-1137
Email: TQuinn@cccyo.org 
Intake Days: Wednesdays and Thursdays
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Location: 141 Leland Avenue, San Francisco, CA  94134 
Notes: Referral required. Intake appointment needed – no drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish and German.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card, Proof of SF Residency, TB Clearance; Medi-Cal card or other proof of insurance so that medications can be ordered.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Rent is calculated at 30% of monthly income. There is an annual income limit.
Eligible Population: All currently homeless individuals, 18 years or older, with disabling HIV or AIDS, psychiatric disorders or substance abuse issues.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Permanent Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Food/Prepared Meals; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Utilities (hot water, heat); Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education through in house dietician; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy, HIV Support, Harm Reduction; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Many additional supportive services available upon referral: behavioral health, employment, case management, and other specialists, as needed.


































Compass Family Services  SF Home  
Compass SF HOME helps families in danger of homelessness to stabilize and maintain their housing and rapidly re-houses homeless families so that they can work towards long-term economic self-sufficiency.  The program is designed to help homeless families find a unit, and then provide a rental subsidy paired with case management until the family increases their income to the point that they can pay the rent on their own.    www.compass-sf.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Beth Mitchell, Program Director
Phone: (415) 644-0504 ext. 2201
Email: bmitchell@compass-sf.org 
Location: 995 Market St, 5th Floor, SF 94103
Notes: Please call for more information and to receive an application packet.  No referral required but we prioritize families who are either in a shelter or on the Connecting Point family shelter waitlist. 


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: We will let you know what documents are needed at the time you apply.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None, although families must pay 40-50% of their net income towards the rent in their unit.
Eligible Population: Homeless families staying in San Francisco. Must have more than 50% custody of a child under 18, minimum income of $500, maximum income 50% AMI. Must have a concrete plan to increase your income to the point where you can afford rent.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Assistance Obtaining Permanent Housing; Rental Subsidies; Intensive Case Management; Education and Professional Goals; Money Management; Access to a Food Pantry; Clothing; Personal Hygiene Products; Diapers and Baby Supplies; Transportation Assistance; Access to Educational/Recreational Activities for Children. 


In the Spotlight:  Nate Williams


A former gang member from Compton, in the 1980’s Nate was one of the first juveniles in California sentenced as an adult.  After serving 32 years on a life sentence, Nate paroled in 2012.  While incarcerated, he created a prisoner-to-prisoner mentoring program, called “Life-to-life,” which paired men serving life sentences with inmates serving shorter sentences who were cycling in and out of the prison system.  






 Inline image 3 

In 2014, Nate graduated from college receiving his BA from California Institute of Integral Studies.  Committed to youth development, reconciliation and restorative justice, Nate works for Westside Community Services as a mental health case manager.




Hamilton Family Center  The Dudley Apartments
Our mission is to break the cycle of homelessness and poverty.  Through a housing-first approach, we provide a continuum of housing solutions and hands-on services that promote self-sufficiency for families and individuals, and foster the potential of children and youth.  The Dudley Apartments is a 75-unit Permanent Supportive Housing development where Hamilton family Center offers intensive case management services for single adults, seniors, Families, and children managing disabilities who have experienced homelessness.  www.hamiltonfamilycenter.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Mary Brown, Case Manager
Phone: (415) 861-8645 x105
Fax:  (415) 861-86447
Email: mbrown@hamiltonfamilycenter.org 
Location: 172 6th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes: Please call for an appointment.  Referral from a service provider who can supply a certificate of homelessness is required.  A waitlist is managed through Mercy Housing.  
See listing under Hamilton First Avenue program for other housing options and instructions.



________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: State issued ID, Social Security Card.  Program will assist clients getting these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: Client pays 30% of their income toward rent.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender, pregnant women, women with children, families.  There are extensive restrictions for this program as it works with Mercy Housing providing Section 8 units.  Please contact the Dudley Apartments staff for more information.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Permanent Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Food/Prepared Meals; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Shower Facilities; Mental Health Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Housing Placement Assistance; Assistance Applying for CalFresh/Food Stamps; Assistance Applying for PAES/GA/CalWorks; Assessment & Application for SSI; Credit Repair; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Eduction; Assistance Applying for Health Insurance; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children.


________________


San Francisco Human Services Agency  San Francisco Rental Assistance Program
Provide back rent or security deposit to low income San Francisco residents meeting criteria. www.sfhsa.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Darlene Fernandez-Ash, Rental Assistance Coordinator
Phone: (415) 557-6484  Fax: (415) 557-6033 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 7988, San Francisco, CA 94120, worker #ZB34
Notes: After verifying need and eligibility based on phone or mail inquiry, clients are referred to a community agency that can help them complete a rental assistance application. No drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; Birth Certificates (for children); Proof of Income; Lease Agreement; and other supporting documentation, as needed.
Client fees, if any: None.
Primary Community Served: Low-income (80% AMI or below) families with minor children in their custody, adults (verifiably disabled, senior 55+), emancipated foster youth, veterans, victim of recent violence. Must be San Francisco resident.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Assistance with back rent; security deposit; critical family needs. Referrals to other services as needed.
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  New Roads Program
In partnership with San Francisco Adult Probation, the New Roads Program provides services to clients who are on Adult Probation in San Franisco.  The New Roads Program is a rental subsidy program designed for clients who are homeless or unstably housed, and are seeking housing and financial stability.  Services for clients accepted into the program include:  housing search assistance, rental subsidies, financial assistance, and supportive setvices.  The goal for all New Roads clients is to obtain permanent housing and increase monthly income during program participation, in order to become self-sufficient. www.thclinic.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Naomi Prochovnick
Phone: (415) 771-2427 x125  Fax: (415) 921-8691 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:30am to 4:00pm
Location: 427 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: Clients may phone or drop in to inquire about services, but will need an appointment for an intake.  Clients must be on supervised Adult Probation in San Francisco and must be referred by their Deputy Probation Officer.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Assamese. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: Clients must be referred  to the program by the San Francisco Adult Probation Department, must be currently homeless or unstably housed, and have at least 12 months remaining on supervision.
Faith Based: No.






Direct Services: Housing Placement Assistance; Rental Subsidies; Supportive Services; Financial and Clothing Assistance.
Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Housing and Supportive Services
THC provides affordable supportive housing in San Francisco to over 1,500 formerly homeless tenants in 16 master leased properties residing in the Tenderloin, Mission, Union Square, and South of Market (SOMA) neighborhoods. Additionally, THC owns and operates the Galvin Apartments, a building in SOMA, designed for tenants transitioning out of Single Room Occupancy Hotels (SROs). The Housing Services Staff are enthusiastic about helping clients retain and maintain their housing through rental payment and money management services. THC provides supportive case management to all THC tenants, using a harm reduction framework. Through the harm reduction lens, each tenant is seen as an individual with unique needs. We attempt to serve tenants in a fair, consistent and supportive manner, which builds upon their strengths and promotes self-sufficiency. www.thclinic.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Clinic Staff
Phone: (415) 771-2427 Fax: (415) 921-8691
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:30am to 4:00pm
Location: 472 Turk Street, San Francisco
Notes: To qualify for placement in a master lease hotel, prospective tenants must: 1) Be homeless. 2) Have a qualifying income. 
3) Must be referred from an approved source. 
Things To Know
Languages: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Assamese.
What to Bring: Referral source provides this information.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Faith Based: No.


How to Sign Up for the Master Lease Program:
If you are a CAAP Recipient: Any client who is active and listed as homeless with their County Adult Assistance Program (CAAP) worker is eligible for master lease hotel housing. Check with your CAAP worker during your monthly Homeless Residency verification appointment regarding housing opportunities.  Your CAAP worker is the only person who can provide you with this information.


If you are a SSI/SSDI/SSA/VA/CAPI Recipient: To qualify for the Master Lease program, you must stay at a qualified emergency shelter or work with a qualified agency. These include: MSC South, Next Door, Hospitality House, Episcopal Sanctuary, A Woman's Place, Larkin St., Dolores St., or the Homeless Outreach Team. Each shelter has a designated number of referrals slots and has its own internal process for making referrals to THC. Please see your shelter case manager to learn about their referral process. If your income is CAAP you cannot be referred through a shelter.


If you are a Qualified Low-Income Working Individual: To qualify for the Master Lease program, you must stay at a qualified emergency shelter or work with a qualified agency. These include: MSC South, Next Door, Hospitality House, Episcopal Sanctuary, A Woman's Place, Larkin St., Dolores St., or the Homeless Outreach Team. Each shelter has a designated number of referrals slots, and has its own internal process for making referrals to THC. Please see your shelter case manager to learn about their referral process. If your income is CAAP you cannot be referred through a shelter.


Direct Services: Intake & Assessment; Case Management; Benefits Advocacy; Community Organizing; Mediation with Property Management; Conflict Resolution; Support Groups; Social Events; Organized Tenant Activities; Wellness Checks; Referrals to other resources available as needed. 
________________



Transitional Housing
Transitional housing is a place to stay temporarily, usually with supportive services available where you live, and referrals to services in the community. 
ARA First Step Home  Sober Living House 
The Alcoholics Rehabilitation Association of San Francisco, Inc., operates the ARA First Step Home, a residence for men and women who are suffering from alcoholism. Our main objective is to return the alcoholic to his or her rightful place in society. The recovery program is oriented towards Alcoholics Anonymous. Help is also provided to make use of community resources to aid in the recovery process. All residents are required to attend the Monday and Thursday A.A. meetings held at 7:30 PM in the First Step Home and one outside meeting of their choice. They will also be required to attend the weekly home forum meeting on Tuesdays at 6:30 PM.       www.arafirststephome.com


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  ARA Staff
Phone: (415) 863-3661 Fax: (415) 863-3670
Email:  arahouse@pacbell.net 
Specific Intake Days and Times: Monday, Wednesday, Friday 6:30am-9:30am        
Hours: Monday – Friday, 6:00am to 2:00pm, Saturday and Sunday, 7:00am to 10:00am
Location: 1035 Haight Street, San Francisco, CA  94117 
Notes: Applicants are referred to the house by institutions, clinics, AA clubs, members, doctors, and other responsible individuals.  If you are on probation or parole, you must be on supervision in San Francisco.  We do not accept probationers or parolees from other counties.
Checklist
1. Call to be sure you meet the minimum requirements.
2. Telephone Interview.
3. Once accepted to waiting list, check-in Mon, Wed., & Fridays 9-5.
4. Know the House Meeting requirements.
5. Valid identification
6. TB test required upon entering or within 1st seven days. 
 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English 
What to Bring: Valid Identification  
Client fee, if any:  Call for information.
Eligible Population: The primary qualifications for residence in the ARA First Step Home are:
1. Completion of a primary program (minimum 28 days) within the last year.
2. An honest and sincere desire to gain and maintain sobriety.
3. The need for food, shelter, and an atmosphere of friendly understanding.
4. Ability and willingness to accept gainful employment.
Faith Based: No
Direct Services: Sober Living; Transitional Housing; Meals; AA Meetings.  There are meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous held at the Home each week. Attendance at meetings is considered a requirement of residence in the Home.
CATS   A Woman’s Place-CARE Program
The CARE Program offers Transitional Housing for up to 18 months available for HIV+ women (including transgender women) residents of San Francisco; services also include case management and – if needed – mental health counseling.   www.catsinc.org


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Pau Lagarde, HIV Case Manager/Mental Health Worker
Phone: (415) 293-7364 
Email: pau@awpcats.org
Days and Times: Sunday-Thursday, 8am-4pm. 
Location: 1049 Howard St. San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: Prefer that clients be referred by service provider, but clients can self-refer by calling contact person (above) and scheduling intake appointment.  Clients must provide documentation of HIV+ status and income verification at intake.  Program is Harm-Reduction-based: there are no sobriety requirements for clients, but no substance use is allowed on the premises. 
 


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Letter of Diagnosis for HIV+ and TB clearance documentation – both within 6 months; current income verification.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: 30% of monthly net income, plus requirement to set aside additional money in savings account – amount to be determined.
Eligible Population: Homeless HIV+ women (including transgender women) residents of San Francisco. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Transitional Housing;  Case Management; Mental Health Counseling.


In the Spotlight:  Curtis Penn
Curtis Penn was sentenced to 25 years to life in 1999 under California’s Three Strikes Law.  After serving 15 years he was released as a result of Proposition 36.  While incarcerated, Curtis injected a sense of meaning and purpose into a less-than-ideal situation. His participation in San Quentin’s Prison University Project sparked his interest in formal education.  
 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\FullSizeRender.jpg 

Since his release Curtis has pursued a BA Degree in Sociology at San Francisco State University (SFSU).  He has been named a Willie L. Brown Fellow at SFSU and is currently interning in the Reentry Division of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department.
________________


Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice (CJCJ)  Cameo House Alternative Sentencing Program
In partnership with the San Francisco Adult Probation Department, the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice’s Cameo House serves criminally involved pregnant and parenting women, who are certified as homeless (as defined by the City and County of San Francisco).  The goal of Cameo House is to identify eligible women who are awaiting adjudication and recommend to the courts that they be sentenced to Cameo House in lieu of state prison or county jail, when appropriate.  All women residing at Cameo House must have at least one child in their custody, have active reunification services with at least one of their children, or be pregnant at the time of enrollment. Cameo House is a 12-month program but clients can remain for up to two years.  All residents must be willing to participate in case management and other clinical services as a condition of the residency. During their stay at Cameo House, women are expected to obtain employment, reunify with at least one of their children, remain clean and sober (verified through random UAs conducted at Cameo House at least once per month), satisfy their Probation requirements, and obtain steady employment, with the goal being for them to obtain and sustain permanent housing.  Cameo House residents work intensively with our on-site Case Manager and Therapist to insure that all these objectives are met. www.cjcj.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake/Staff
Phone: (415) 703-0600 Fax: (415) 703-0550
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Location: Located in San Francisco. Write to Cameo House, 40 Boardman Place, San Francisco, CA 94103.
Notes: Clients may call for more information about the referral process.  Appointments required.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English and Spanish. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Formerly incarcerated women with young children. May not have a criminal conviction for a sex offense or be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Assistance with Permanent Housing; Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Storage Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Restorative Justice/Survivor Impact; Basic/Remedial Education; College & Graduate Education; GED & High School Education; Reading/Literacy; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, SSI; Credit Repair; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services; Clean Slate/ Conviction Expungement Services; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Employment Law; Childcare; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


In the Spotlight:  Luis Aroche


Growing up in San Francisco’s Mission District, Luis Aroche was aware of the gang and street life that surrounded his community.  Although conscientious of the harm gang members were doing to the community, he found it difficult to escape the web of violence.  After serving several years in different juvenile facilities across the state of California, a prosecutor took a special interest in Luis and offered him a second chance: a job. From cleaning swimming pools to serving Mitchell's Ice Cream, Luis saw employment as the beginning of his new life. 




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Luis Aroche\Luis Aroche.jpg 

He obtained his Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (emphasis in Counseling Psychology) from the California Institute of Integral Studies. In 2012, he was hired by San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón as the first Alternative Sentencing Planner in the State of California.  He is currently pursuing a Master's Degree in Public Administration from the University of San Francisco. 
In the Spotlight:  Monique Randolph
 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\monique randolph\Monique Randloph.jpg 







After several failed attempts at substance abuse treatment, Monique’s addiction eventually resulted in numerous arrests and time spent in state prison. As a young mother, she was determined to do better.
Monique has completed an Associate of Arts Degree in Social Work and Substance Abuse from Merritt College in Oakland.  After graduation she was hired by Walden House Inc. (now HealthRIGHT 360), as a HIV case manager.  Seven years later, she is still with HealthRIGHT360, serving as the Health and Wellness Medical Coordinator for the organization.
  
________________


Compass Family Services  Compass Clara House
Compass Clara House (CCH) is a two-year transitional housing program of Compass Family Services and is aimed at supporting families with minor children to permanently break the cycle of homelessness.  Through intensive case management, on-site therapy, life skills classes, parenting support, on-site licensed childcare for children through age 5, after school programs, education/vocational support, money management, and recovery support, our two-year program helps families build a lasting foundation for success.
www.compass-sf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Felicia Less, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 644-0504 ext. 5104
Email: fless@compass-sf.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 10:00am to 6:00pm
Location: 111 Page Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: Clients must be referred by a social service agency (such as a family shelter or substance abuse treatment program). Appointment required. 


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: First, case manager or referring agency speaks with intake coordinator. After that, necessary documents include TB Clearance, proof of custody of minor(s), proof of income (if any), and identification information (state-issued or other) are required.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: 30% of monthly income for program fees, and a mandatory 20% of monthly income towards savings, returned upon exit.
Eligible Population: Only homeless families with minor children.  Parents or guardians must have 50% legal and physical custody of the children or a solid reunification plan.  Clients must have 6 months clean prior to being referred.  Clients who have experienced domestic violence must be able to demonstrate at least 2 months separation from batterer.  Must not have a conviction for a violent offence, sex offenses, or arson.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Case Management; Life Skills; Permanent Housing Placement; Licensed Child Care and Afterschool Activities; Transitional Housing (up to 2 years); Individual Therapy; Educational/Vocational Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


















________________


GEO Reentry Services  Taylor Street Facility  
GEO Reentry Services’ mission is to help prepare individuals to reintegrate back to society and be responsible individuals who are accountable for their actions. Placements usually last from six months to one year. www.geogroup.com 


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Daionne Washington
Phone: (415) 346-9769 
Fax: (415) 346-0358
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Location: 111 Taylor Street, San Francisco, CA  94102 
Notes: Must be referred by CDCR Agent of Record or Federal BOP, Probation Officer/ Federal Pretrial services. Self-pay county beds.  Call for info. No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, some Spanish. 
What to Bring: TB Clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Self-pay residents pay $80/day. No sliding scale. All other residents are covered by an agency. BOP requires 25% of income for subsistence. No cost for CDCR residents, but residents must save 75% of net income in a savings account for their release.
Eligible Population: All individuals without criminal conviction for sex offense, arson, or who are not registered sex offenders.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/
Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Post-Incarceration Support; Victim/Survivor Services; Basic/Remedial Education; GED & High School Education Referral; Reading/Literacy; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Good Shepherd  Gracenter
As a Women's Secondary Recovery Program, Good Shepherd Gracenter offers housing, case management and supportive services.  The program is based on 12-step spirituality and a holistic approach. The program’s mission is based on a belief in the dignity and worth of each person as a child of God. Participants are expected to stay at least six months. www.gsgracenter.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Sandra Munoz, Case Manager
Phone: (415) 337-1938 Fax: (415) 337-4668
Email: smunoz@gsgracenter.org  
Location: 1310 Bacon St., San Francisco, CA 94134 
Notes: No referral needed. Appointment needed.  No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Spanish, Greek, English 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card, TB Clearance; Medical Clearance
Accessibility: Yes.
Client fees: $300/month minimum.
Eligible Population: Women and transgender women. May not have criminal convictions for sex or arson offenses. May not be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: Yes. 




Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Community Education and Mediation; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Restorative Justice/Survivor Impact; Support with Assessment and Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, SSI, Credit Repair; Job Readiness and Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Hamilton Family Center  First Avenues Program
The mission of Hamilton Family Center is to break the cycle of homelessness and poverty. Through a Housing First approach, HFC provides a continuum of housing solutions and comprehensive services that promote self-sufficiency for families and individuals, and foster the potential of children and youth. In July 2006, HFC launched a city wide Housing First Initiative called First Avenues: Housing Solutions for Families. First Avenues’ primary focus is to return families to independent living and to assist families and individuals to maintain their housing. First Avenues assists families with addressing housing barriers, such as; eviction and credit problems, locating and securing rental units, accessing available resources for rental and move-in assistance, and short-term rental subsidies. Families applying for First Avenues financial assistance grants and/or residing in a San Francisco shelters may access the housing services from a First Avenues Homeless Prevention Case Manager including, Bay Area housing search, linkage to fair market housing, linkage to affordable, subsidized, permanent supportive housing, Housing Authority waitlists, housing application assistance, housing advice and counseling, landlord/tenant assistance, address obstacles such as bad credit and history of eviction, access credit reports, deposit and move-in assistance, application to short term rental subsidies, for those who are eligible.  www.myhousing.org  www.hamiltonfamilycenter.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake Specialist 
Phone: (415) 614-9060 ext. 108
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 255 Hyde Street, San Francisco
Notes: Applications for the Rental Subsidy Program can be picked up at the office.  To qualify, prospective applicants must: 1) Be homeless or at risk of homelessness in San Francisco. 2) Have a qualifying income. 
3) Must have legal custody of at least one minor child. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese.
What to Bring: All required documents are listed on the front of the Rental Subsidy Application. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: No client fees.
Eligible Population: Individuals who are currently homeless or at risk of losing their housing.
Faith Based: No.


Move-In Assistance 
Once housing is secured, First Avenues will provide a qualifying family with a grant towards deposit and/or first month’s rent. First Avenues Move-In Assistance grants are one-time only. Deposits can be accessed for housing located both in and outside of San Francisco. 
Eligibility Criteria:
•        Family unit with legal custody of minor children 
•        Homeless, must provide appropriate documentation (i.e. Certification of Homelessness) 
•        Moving within or from San Francisco. 
•        Family has sufficient resources to pay monthly rent


Rental Subsidy Program:
The First Avenues Rental Subsidy Program is targeted towards working families in San Francisco. Families may be in shelter or on the verge of homelessness. The Rental Subsidy Program provides eligible families with monthly rental assistance for3-24 months. Families must demonstrate an ability to increase their income by at least the amount of the subsidy and recertify quarterly for eligibility, need and progress. This subsidy is used to enhance each family’s employment goals and maintain their housing goals as they move towards self-sufficiency. Families pay 50% of their monthly income towards rent, and the rental assistance maximum per family is $800 per month. The rental subsidy is only applicable to market rate and affordable housing options; it cannot be applied to subsidized options like housing authority where the family’s rental amount is determined by a percentage of their income. Families enrolled in this program receive home-based support services for the duration of their financial assistance. 


Eligibility Criteria: 
•  Family is living in a shelter or transitional housing program in San Francisco or is housed in San Francisco and at risk of losing their housing; 
•  Have a household member who is working part or full-time, and/or families on Cal Works who are transitioning into work; 
•  If the family did not receive the subsidy they would be paying over 50% of their income toward rent; 
•  Income must be less than 50% AMI in San Francisco; 
•  Family has the ability to increase their monthly income and take over the full rent by the end of the program term.


Eviction Prevention Program:
First Avenues Eviction Prevention assistance is a one time, maximum $1,500 grant to families and individuals facing imminent eviction and subsequent homelessness. The grant must prevent an eviction and avert the family or individual from entering shelter. First Avenues Eviction Prevention targets households who are at risk of eviction and who would be able to retain their housing with one-time rental assistance. Households receive follow up phone calls to ensure that they have remained stably housed.


Eligibility Criteria:
•  Must have a legal lease
•  W-9 from the landlord (or can obtain one from the landlord) 
•  Eviction Notice (within 30 days)
•  Ability to pay rent forward.
Households need to call the Eviction Prevention Specialist at 415-614-9060 ext. 114


Direct Services: Eviction Prevention Assistance, Rental Move-in Assistance; Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Transit Vouchers (youth passes for MUNI); Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Employment Placement; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Housing & Eviction Defense; Couples/Family Counseling; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






















Hamilton Family Center  Transitional Housing Program
The Hamilton Family Center Transitional Housing program seeks to break the cycle of homelessness and poverty. Through a housing-first approach, we provide a continuum of housing solutions and hands-on services that promote self-sufficiency for families and individuals, and foster the potential of children and youth. The Transitional Housing Program offers 20 high-needs families interim housing with comprehensive support services for up to 18 months.  www.hamiltonfamilycenter.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Front Desk
Phone: (415) 409-2100 ext 100
Fax: (415) 345-0471
Email: thp.intake@hamiltonfamilycenter.org 
Location: 1631 Hayes St, San Francisco, CA 94117
Notes: Clients are required to have a referral from a social service provider and a certificate of homelessness.  Appointment required.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card; birth certificates for children in physical/legal custody, and back rent notice or certification of homelessness. Program will try to assist client in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Clients pay 30% of their income towards rent and an additional 20% into savings that is returned to them when they exit the program.
Eligible Population: Families (any adult/s with children) with at least one child under 18 in physical or legal custody or be in the 3rd trimester or 5th month of high risk pregnancy
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance getting Driver’s License/ID; Clothing; Mental Health Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling; Housing Placement Assistance; Assistance Applying For CalFresh/Food Stamps; Assessment & Application for SSI; Credit Repair; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Assistance Applying For Health Insurance; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education; Services For Children.


________________


Harbor House The Salvation Army    
Our mission is to create and deliver integrated solutions to profound social problems. Since 1991, The Salvation Army Harbor House has operated housing programs, provided chemical dependency treatment, workforce solutions, and other supportive services to single parent families with children or in reunification, who are homeless.  www.sanfrancisco.salvationarmy.org/sanfrancisco/harbor_house
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Aviva Zuckrow, Director
Phone: (415) 503-3029 
Email: aviva.zuckrow@usw.salvationarmy.org 
Specific Intake Days and Times: Mon-Fri
Hours: 8am-4pm
Location: Call for location.
Notes: Referral from a case manager or other person in a professional capacity (i.e. parole agent). By appointment only -- No drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, TB Clearance, if Veteran, Form DD214. Program may be able to assist clients in getting these.
Client fees, if any: 30% of income-when income is in place. If just coming from prison, no charge until income in place.
Eligible Population: Men, women, women with children, all families. May not have conviction for sex offense or be a registered sex offender. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Shower Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Substance Abuse Treatment; Dental Care; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Workforce Services; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, Cal WORKS, General Assistance; Credit Repair; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Childcare; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education Services for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




























Lutheran Social Services of Northern California  Forensic Housing Program
The Forensic Housing Program is a HOPWA-funded transitional housing program for homeless HIV+ men and women (including transgender men and women) who’ve been incarcerated at the county, state or federal level within the past 12 months.  The program provides short term emergency shelter and transitional housing of up to 18 months while participants receive coordinated case management support to help stabilize their lives.  
www.lssnorcal.org/what_we_do/san-francisco-programs/supportive-housing/forens.html
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Frank Perez, Program Manager
Phone: (415) 351-1337 Fax: (415) 351- 1228
Email: fperez@lssnorcal.org
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm
Location: Kinney Hotel, 410 Eddy St., San Francisco, CA  94109
Notes: Clients must be referred by a primary case manager who will continue to provide services; referral process includes submitting program paperwork, letter of HIV+ diagnosis, income verification (if client already has income) and care plan. Client must be willing to follow rules and participate in program designed to provide stabilization and ensure transition into permanent housing
 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Letter of HIV+ diagnosis, income verification and care plan must be provided at or by intake appointment.
Accessibility: Not wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: 30% of monthly net income plus additional mandatory 20% monthly savings. 
Eligible Population: HIV+ men and women (including transgender men and women) who’ve been incarcerated at the county, state or federal level within the past 12 months.  
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Case Management. Additional program services include housing advocacy, money management services, linkages to HIV prevention, access to benefits counseling/advocacy, workshops/groups focused on teaching basic life skills, access to medical, access to oral health care, and access to behavioral health services targeting post-incarcerated individuals living with HIV/AIDS in the city and county of San Francisco, CA.   
________________


________________


The Metropolitan Fresh Start House, Inc.
The Metropolitan Fresh Start Program is a six-month (or longer) faith-based transitional and outpatient program designed for men struggling with life’s problems. The program is designed to provide progressive rehabilitation based on time-tested social model programs: the process of learning through doing and experiencing, plus exposure of clients to positive role models through staff and volunteers.  www.metropolitanfreshstart.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Richard Suydam, Intake Coordinator Administrator 
Phone: (415) 242-2412 Fax: (415) 242-2414 
Email: admin@freshstarthouse.org  
Hours: Office Hours: Daily, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Office Location/Treatment Center: 
1300 30th Ave., SF, CA  94122
Mailing Address:
P.O. Box 12190, SF, CA  94117
Notes: No referral needed. Appointments only: Call Intake Coordinator. No drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Client fees, if any: Minimum $850/month for residential treatment.  Funding available for veterans.
Eligible Population: Men, ages 18-80. Must be clean and sober, must not have any medical or mental health condition that would prohibit program participation.  May not have conviction for sex offense or be a registered sex offender. 
Faith Based: Yes - optional.


Direct Services: Alcohol/Drug Treatment; Anger Management; Clothing; Counseling; Food/Meals; Life Skills; Mentoring; Phone/Voicemail; Residential/Housing (6 months to 1 year); Showers; Transit Vouchers. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Nanny’s Sober Living
To help men and women maintain recovery while taking on everyday life challenges to self independence.
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Suritha Jackson
Phone: (415) 240-7526 or (916) 583-1917 Fax: (415) 401-0500
Email: nannys.sober.living@gmail.com
Hours: Vary. Please call or write first.
Location: 1686 Oakdale Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94124
Notes: No referral needed. No drop-ins. Please call or write for appointment.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: TB clearance. Program will assist client in getting this.
Client fees, if any: Varies, depending on income.
Eligible Population: Men and women, 18 years and older. Cannot serve child sex offenders or minors; cannot serve individuals with a criminal conviction for gang-related offense, arson, or are registered sex offenders.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or other ID; Food/Prepared Meals/ Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Group Counseling/ Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Family Reunification. Referrals to other resources.


Our Father’s Sober Living Environment    
Our Father’s SLE (OFSLE) provides service-structured, low-cost transitional housing to recovering men who have become displaced as a result of substance abuse and addiction.  Located in the Bayview Community, our home is designed to assist recovering men at the transitional and community re-entry phases of their recovery and our length of stay ranges from 6 months up to 1 year.  www.cleanlounge.info
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Keesha Henry, Program Director
Phone: (415) 926-0258
Email:  keeshahenry@gmail.com
Days and Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm for intakes.
Location: 1641 LaSalle Ave. San Francisco, CA 94124
Notes: Appointment required.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: California ID and any letters of recommendation or personal references to support your application to our program.
Accessibility:  Not wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Shared rooms are $600/month.
Eligible Population: Adult men, 18 years or older, with special outreach to veterans, seniors, parolees, and GBQT who have become homeless as a result of substance abuse/addiction.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/ Mail Service; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Community Education & Mediation; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Phatt Chance Community Services
Phatt Chance Community Services, Inc., (PCCS) is a nonprofit organization that provides transitional short and long-term housing and other basic support services to individuals reintegrating to society after incarceration, homelessness, and those with mental health concerns. PCCS provides a safe, clean and sober living environment, basic psychosocial services, as well as aftercare for clients in various stages of drug and/or alcohol abuse recovery. PCCS utilizes a reintegration model that provides minimum structure paired with maximum accountability, which allows program participants to pursue employment, continued education, counseling services and other off-site responsibilities when appropriate. The duration of clients’ stay at Phatt Chance Community Services depends entirely on the individual needs of each client.  www.phattchance.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake/House Manager
Phone: (415) 822-9922 
Email: phattchancecommunity@gmail.com
Intake Hours: Monday through Friday, 8 am to 4 pm and by appointment
Location: San Francisco. Easily accessible by public transportation.
Mailing Address: Phatt Chance Community Services, Inc., 2443 Fillmore Street #216, 
San Francisco, CA 94115
 


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Client fees: Based on individual service needs. 
Eligible Population: Male only, 18 years and older. 
Faith Based: No.
Notes: Long-term and short-term housing for 
men of any race, sexual orientation, ethnicity and faith.






Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Clean & Sober Living; Mental Health Assessment; Substance Abuse Education; Relapse Prevention and Intervention; Treatment Referrals; In-House Peer Support Groups; Self-Esteem and Community Building; Life Skills Training.
________________


In the Spotlight:  George Turner


George Turner grew up in Oakland, California.  A self-described former underground entrepreneur, Mr. Turner managed to escape the bleak outcome of his loved ones and moved on to earn a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology, and a Master’s degree in Gerontology from San Francisco State University.  




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\george Turner\George Turner.jpg 

George is currently a case manager with Leaders in Community Alternatives (LCA) working with transitional age youth (TAY).  He is also a certified drug and alcohol counselor, founder and Executive Director of Phatt Chance Community Services, Inc., a 501(c) 3, a California Association of Addiction Recovery Resources (CAARR) certified nonprofit organization, providing clean and sober transitional housing for formerly incarcerated men.
In the Spotlight:  Larry Freitas


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Larry Freitas\_MG_5423-3 (2).jpg 







After spending 17 years and 2 months in the California Prison system and losing 25 years of his life to a methamphetamine addiction, Larry made a commitment to change. In 2005, during his last term of incarceration, Larry was diagnosed with Bilateral Optic Neuropathy and deemed legally blind. 


Upon his release from state prison in 2010, he went directly to substance abuse treatment at HealthRIGHT 360. After completing treatment, in light of all of the obstacles he faced, Larry attended City College of San Francisco and earned a CAADE Drug & Alcohol Certificate and is currently employed as a case manager with HealthRIGHT360.
________________


Recovery Survival Network (RSN)  Family of Friends Sober Living Network
Our Mission: to help those who want to help themselves. Our goals: provide intensive case management coupled with clean and sober housing to help transition participants into self-sufficiency.   www.rsn2000.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Lou Gordon, Executive Director; Kevin Henley, Program Manager
Phone: (415) 552-1111 Fax: (415) 552-8444
24 hour emergency hotline: 888-USE-NONE
Email: rsn2000@gmail.com 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Locations: 
3032-16th St., San Francisco, CA  94110
68-6th St., San Francisco, CA 94103
1312 Utah St., San Francisco, CA 94110
1657 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94103
30 Sycamore St., San Francisco, CA 94110
2697 Mission St., San Francisco, CA 94110
Notes: RSN transitional housing requires a referral from SFAPD, Superior Court, or the SF Sheriff’s Department.  Appointments preferred.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English (translation for Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese).
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card, Proof of SF Residency, TB Clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting these.
Accessibility: Some facilities accommodate people with mobility impairments.
Client fees, if any: Clean and sober living housing rate is $1000.00 per month.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, Transgender people. Individuals required to register as a sex offender are accepted on a case by case basis.  Clients need a referral.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Stabilization Housing; Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-occuring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy (Peer-to-Peer only); Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Restorative Justice/Survivor Impact; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services; Family Reunification; Visits of Family Members in Jails & Prisons. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


San Francisco Network Ministries Housing Corporation  San Francisco SafeHouse
SafeHouse is an 18-month transitional housing program for women; we provide gender-specific responses to chronic homelessness for women in the commercial sex industry.  Our clean and sober living community empowers homeless women exiting prostitution to gain the skills and resources they need to grow and become independent and self-sufficient members of society. Services include case management, substance abuse treatment, individual and group therapy, money management and financial education, vocational testing, and guidance and assistance in finding permanent housing when leaving SafeHouse. www.sfsafehouse.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Kristen Moore, Case Manager
Phone: (415) 643-7861 Fax: (415) 643-1293
Email: casemanager@sfsafehouse.org 
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days; Intake Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Mailing Address:  P.O. Box 40369, San Francisco, CA  94140
Location: Confidential location. 
Notes: Clients can self-refer or be referred by a provider; if the program beds are full, SafeHouse maintains a waitlist and contacts prospective clients for intake.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Client fees, if any: 30% of any government assistance and/or 20% of any earned income.
Eligible Population: Women who are currently homeless, have a history of work in the sex industry, and have been clean and sober for at least 30 days. May not have a criminal conviction for arson or be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services:  Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Storage Facilities; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Dental Care; Health & Wellness Education; Menu Planning and Nutritionist Weekly; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Trauma Recovery Services; Victim/Survivor Services; Basic/Remedial Education; College & Graduate Education; GED & High School Education; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, SSI; Credit Repair; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Internship Program; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


In the Spotlight:  Rico Hamilton
Rico Hamilton is a native of San Francisco and was raised in the Western Addition neighborhood. He entered the criminal justice system as a juvenile and was later sentenced to prison. After being released from San Quentin in 2004, Rico reentered the world with a new vision. He began to educate himself about his community and how he could be a part of the effort to end the violence. He started working with S.F. Magic Zone as a teen program coordinator and later, worked to create a transitional age youth workforce development program. 




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Rico Hamilton\Rico Hamilton.jpg 

Today, Rico works as a Crisis Responder with the San Francisco Street Violence Intervention Program. He is the co-founder of “Raw Talk for Life,” an in-custody program in the San Francisco County Jails.  Since being appointed to the San Francisco Reentry Council, Mr. Hamilton has decided to further his education by attending Project Rebound at San Francisco State University, to pursue a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science with the vision of becoming further involved in local politics.
In the Spotlight:  Nichole Pettway


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Nichole Pettway\Niochole Pettway.jpg 





Nichole dropped out of school in the 8th grade and by the age of eighteen she was addicted to drugs and introduced to the criminal justice system.  After losing her first 2 children to child protective services, she gave birth to her third child in state prison.  After being released from prison, she decided to make some critical life changes.  


She completed a residential substance abuse program and began to focus on her goals.  Today, Nichole has her children in her life, has completed her GED, received a teaching credential as a health educator, an Associate Degree which included a CAADE/CATC certification, and will be graduating with a Bachelor’s degree in June 2015.  Nichole is currently employed by the Center on Criminal and Juvenile Justice (CJCJ) as the Program Manager of Cameo House, an alternative sentencing program for women.




Reentry Today
Transitional housing and supportive services for people in recovery from substance abuse/addiction. 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Chris Jones
Phone: (415) 724-0311        Fax: (415) 658-7592
Email:  cj122252@yahoo.com
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm
Location: 1094 Gilman Street, San Francisco, CA 94124 
Notes: No referral needed. Appointment required.




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: No documents needed prior to entry. Program will assist with documentation after intake.
Client fees, if any: $700/month
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:         Transitional Housing; Anger Management; Individual Counseling, Relapse Prevention; Substance Abuse Treatment; Job Readiness.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.








In the Spotlight:  Chris Jones


Chris Jones was raised in the Hunters Point area of San Francisco. After numerous interactions with the criminal justice system, Chris was sentenced to 15 years to life. In lieu of serving his time in state prison, he was given the opportunity to go to Delancey Street.  






 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Chris Jones\Chris Jones.jpg 

After graduating from Delancey, Chris was hired as the Program Coordinator at Up From Darkness, and later as a case manager at HealthRIGHT360. Chris is currently employed by San Mateo County Correctional Mental Health as an in-custody program counselor with the Choices program.  Additionally, he is the founder and Executive Director of Reentry Today, a transitional housing program in San Francisco. 












Victory Outreach San Francisco  Victory Outreach Recovery Home
 www.vosf.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Edgardo Gonzalez, Pastor
Phone: (415) 644-0555 Fax: (415) 710-4938
Email: info@vosf.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 10:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 1266 Fitzgerald Avenue
San Francisco, CA  94124 
Notes: No referral needed. Appointments only—no drop-ins.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: TB Clearance. Program will assist clients in getting this. 
Client fees, if any: Free of charge unless they have a source of income.
Eligible Population: Men and women, 18 and older. May not have a criminal conviction for sex offense; may not be a registered sex offender; may not be on psychiatric medication. 
Faith Based: Yes - Christian.


Direct Services: Housing; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Shower Facilities; Substance Abuse Treatment; Free Clinic for Physical Health; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Restorative Justice/Survivor Impact; Trauma Recovery Services; Victim/Survivor Services; Basic/Remedial Education; Vocational Education; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance; Employment Training; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement Services; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education Services for Children; Visits of Family Members in Jails & Prisons. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________



EMERGENCY SHELTER FOR INDIVIDUALS
If you are an adult without children with you, you can seek emergency shelter through any one of the following locations. These places can help you reserve a shelter bed during the days and times listed, at one of the emergency shelters for individuals in San Francisco.  Further, these locations can help you get connected to more permanent housing opportunities.

Glide Walk-In Center
Language(s) Spoken: English, Cantonese and Spanish
Location: 330 Ellis Street, #101, San Francisco, CA 
Hours: Monday - Friday: 7:00am to 11:00am; 4:00pm to 9:00pm
Phone: (415) 674-6012        Fax: (415)775-1989
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; all other reasonable accommodations as needed.

Mission Neighborhood Resource Center
Language(s) Spoken: English and Spanish
Location: 165 Capp Street, between 16th and 17th Streets, San Francisco, CA 
Hours:        Monday – Friday: 7:00am to 12:00pm and 2:00pm to 7:00pm (Thurs until 5pm) 
Saturday: 7:00am to 12:00pm
Phone: (415) 869-7977        Fax: (415) 241-9758
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; all other reasonable accommodations as needed.

Multi-Service Center (MSC) South
Language(s) Spoken: English
Location: 525 5th Street, San Francisco, CA 
Hours:        24 Hours; Shelter Reservations from 5:00pm-1:00am
Phone: (415) 597-7960        Fax: (415) 597-7946

Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; all other reasonable accommodations as needed.
United Council of Human Services
Language(s) Spoken: English and Spanish
Location: 2111 Jennings Street, between Van Dyke and Wallace Avenues, San Francisco, CA 
Hours:        Everyday: 7:00am to 9:00am (Breakfast), 9:00am to 5:00pm (Office Hours), 5:00pm to 7:00pm (Dinner), 7pm-9pm (Showers)
Phone: (415) 671-1100        Fax: (415) 822-3436
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; all other reasonable accommodations as needed.


________________


CATS  A Woman's Place
CATS helps those most in need get off the street, achieve stability and establish permanent housing by providing compassionate, culturally sensitive services and stays of 4-18 months. www.catsinc.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Case Manager on duty
Phone: (415) 487-2140 Email: 
Transitional Housing: sherita@awpcats.org 
HIV Caseworker:  pau@awpcats.org
Substance use treatmen: Blake@awpcats.org
Program Coordinator: rachel@awpcats.org 
Intake: Everyday 8am-4pm. 
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days. Business hours: 8am-4:00pm; Drop-in 12pm-4:30pm.
Location: 1049 Howard St. San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: No referral needed. 


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Spanish, English. 
What to Bring: TB Clearance.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Emergency shelter clients do not pay program fees. Clients in Substance Abuse or Transitional Housing pay 30% of income based on HUD guidelines.
Eligible Population: All Women, MTF Transgender people, Pregnant women. Program does not serve FTM Transgender individuals.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing;  Access to Internet (no computers available, wireless only); Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phones (no voicemai); Shower Facilities; Substance Abuse Treatment; Medical Care. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




In the Spotlight:  Katie Dixon


Katie Dixon entered the criminal justice system at as a juvenile and served time on manslaughter charges.  As time went on, a cycle of in and out of jail became routine for her.  In 2012, Katie got the opportunity to go to the Delancey Street Foundation in San Francisco and rebuild her life.  






 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Katie\Katie Dixon.jpg 

With the skills Katie learned at Delancey Street and the resources of the Community Assessment and Services Center (CASC), Katie has launched a new career at Social Imprints, a digital printing company in San Francisco.





Emergency Shelter for Families
If you are an adult with your children, you can seek emergency shelter for families through Compass Connecting Point for family shelters. You should get on this waiting list as soon as possible. If you need a family shelter bed tonight, contact Hamilton Family Residences and Emergency Center (on the following page). 
Compass Family Services  Compass Connecting Point
Compass Connecting Point (CCP) is a unique program that gives any San Francisco family experiencing a housing crisis quick access to the services that they need most, including eviction prevention, emergency shelter, health care, child care and educational programs.  CCP manages the shelter waiting list for the City-funded long-term family shelters.  Our goals are to place families into shelter and provide supportive services during that wait, including emergency food, diapers, transportation assistance, and intensive support with housing search.  Additionally, CCP provides a one time interest free loan for move in funds and eviction prevention.  
www.compass-sf.org/programs/connecting-point


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Any hotline worker or Crisis Intervention Counselor
Phone: (855) 234-2667
Fax:  (415) 442-5138
Specific Intake Days/Times:  Monday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm; Tuesday 9am-12pm and 3pm-5pm; Wednesday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm; Thursday 9am-12pm and 2pm-5pm; and Friday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm
Note:  No referral required.  All clients are required to do a 15 minute phone intake over the hotline at (855) 234-2667.  Drop-in services are available Monday 9am-12pm, Wednesday 10:30am-12pm, Friday 9am-12pm.  Families are typically on the waitlist for 6 to 8 months during which time we provide supportive services.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, German.  We are able to arrange ASL interpreters.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population: All families, pregnant women, women with children.  Eligible families have at least one legal adult plus either a minor child in their custody or a pregnancy.  There is no maximum family size.  For shelter wait list, families must be homeless and receiving public benefits in SF or willing to transfer to SF.  For rental assisitance, families must be SF residents.  For move in funds, they must be homeless in SF and have a unit they have been accepted into.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Rental Move-In Assistance; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Assistance Applying for Calfresh/Food Stamps.




________________


________________




Hamilton Family Center  Hamilton Family Residence & Emergency Center
Our mission is to break the cycle of homelessness and poverty. Through a housing-first approach, we provide a continuum of housing solutions and hands-on services that promote self-sufficiency for families and individuals, and foster the potential of children and youth. www.hamiltonfamilycenter.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Any staff member.
Emergency Center Phone: (415) 292-9930
Emergency Bed Call-in #: (415) 292-5228 
Fax: (415) 292-9951
Call-ins for Emergency Beds twice daily:
Monday to Friday, 11:00am and 5:00pm
415-292-5228
Facility Hours: 24 hours, 7 days
Location: 260 Golden Gate Ave., San Francisco, CA 94102 
Notes: Emergency beds are available daily for 1-night stays, and are given away on a first come, first served basis. Emergency Center program also has 60-day stays. Call Emergency Center for more information.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English & Spanish. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card, Birth Certificate, and TB Clearance. Note: There is a grace period of a few days for individuals who are gathering these documents. Program will assist client in getting these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Must have child under 18 in physical or legal custody or be pregnant in third trimester or in fifth month of high risk pregnancy.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Access to Internet; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Local Phone; Shower Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Medical Care; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; After School Programming and Activities for Children ages 0-18; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________



Domestic Violence Shelters   
If you are in danger of violence, seek help. The following shelters offer temporary housing at confidential locations.
Asian Women's Shelter   
The mission of the Asian Women’s Shelter (AWS) is to eliminate domestic violence by promoting the social, economic, and political self-determination of women. AWS is committed to every person’s right to live in a violence-free home. It specifically addresses the cultural and language needs of immigrant, refugee, and U.S.-born Asian women and their children. AWS’s perspective is reflected in the agency’s broad strategy, which integrates culturally knowledgeable and language-accessible shelter services, educational programs, and community-based initiatives and advocacy. www.sfaws.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Crisis Line 
Phone: (415) 751-0880 
Crisis Line: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm. After hours, crisis line rolls over to WOMAN, Inc.
Mailing Address: 3543 - 18th Street #19, SF, CA 94110 
Notes: No referral needed. Call crisis line at any time. Location is confidential, so no drop-ins, but call to get connected with services.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Arabic, Bengali, Cantonese, Dutch, Farsi, Georgian, Gujarati, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese, Javanese, Kachi, Kannada, Korean, Lao, Mandarin, Punjabi, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, Taiwanese, Tamil, Telugu, Thai, Tosa. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Women, Transgender people, Pregnant women, Women with children, All families.  No male adults over the age of 18.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Rental Move-in Assistance; Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Storage Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Childcare (Emergency); Children Program Activities; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


La Casa de las Madres
La Casa offers a comprehensive continuum of support services for survivors of domestic violence. La Casa offers safety-first, empowerment and client-centered services. It offers crisis response, emergency shelter, and ongoing counseling and resource advocacy. Ending or escaping domestic violence is a process. Services are confidential. Individuals do not have to leave the abusive partner before accessing support.  www.lacasa.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 503-0500        
24-Hour Hotline: (877) 503-1850 
Fax: (415) 503-0301 Email: info@lacasa.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm 
Address: 1663 Mission Street, Suite 225, San Francisco, CA 94103 or 850 Bryant Street, 5th Floor SVU, San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins available. Shelter location is confidential.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Mandarin, Farsi, and others. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Free and confidential.
Eligible Population: Women; Transgender Women; Women w/ Children; Pregnant Women; Teens, Age 11-24; if facing domestic violence.
Faith Based: No. 
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Legal Assistance/Advocacy; Accompany to Court Dates; Help/Vouchers to Get State ID; Parenting Support; Services for Children; Counseling; Life Skills; Mentoring; Trauma Recovery; Victim Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
In the Spotlight:  Rachel Dunne


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Rachel Dunne\Rachel Dunne.jpg 



After losing ten years of her life to drugs and crime, Rachel took an opportunity to get treatment for her addiction.  After completing 17 months at Asian American Residential Treatment Program, she has reunited with her family and works as a production assistant for Road 22, a high end clothing manufacturer that employs formerly incarcerated women.   


________________



Education & Employment

Education
A college education can be a powerful tool when it comes to supporting yourself, but getting there can seem very challenging. Here’s a basic outline of what you’ll need if a college education is part of your plans.
* Graduation from high school and receipt of a high school diploma are admission requirements at many colleges, including those in the California State University system. It is always best to stay in high school to receive your high school diploma, but sometimes it is not possible to do so. There are options available for completing the equivalent to a high school diploma:
   * Passing the California High School Proficiency Examination is the legal equivalent of earning a high school diploma. 
   * The General Education Development program (GED) is another examination program that, upon successful completion, offers the equivalent of a high school diploma. 
   * Remember that completing either the California High School Proficiency Examination or the GED does not eliminate the high school course requirements or the grades and test requirements.
* Getting copies of your GED Records: If you already took the GED, you may request copies of your records by contacting the GED Testing Service:
Contact:  gedtestingservice.com
Preparing to pay for college: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). One of the tools you can use to estimate your eligibility for federal student financial assistance is the Financial Aid Estimator Tool – FAFSA4caster – which is available online at: www.fafsa4caster.ed.gov 
You may have heard that if you have been convicted of a felony, you are not eligible to receive financial aid. This is not necessarily true. A student convicted of possession or sale of illegal drugs may have eligibility suspended if the offense occurred while the student was receiving federal student aid (grants, loans, or work-study). When you complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), you will be asked whether you had a drug conviction for an offense that occurred while you were receiving federal student aid. If the answer is yes, you will be provided a special worksheet to help you determine whether your conviction affects your eligibility for federal student aid. You may preview the worksheet in the FAFSA Information section at www.studentaid.ed.gov/pubs. If you have been convicted of a forcible or nonforcible sexual offense, and you are subject to an involuntary civil commitment upon completion of a period of incarceration for that offense, you are ineligible to receive a Federal Pell Grant.
________________


City College of San Francisco  Disabled Students Programs & Services (DSPS)
The overall mission of DSPS is to provide exemplary instruction, support services and access to students with disabilities. DSPS will support students with disabilities in educationally related activities consistent with the mission and vision of CCSF and in compliance with federal and state laws to "level the playing field" for students with disabilities through ensuring equal access to programs and facilities and to provide reasonable accommodations for documented disabilities. www.ccsf.edu/dsps 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 452-5481
TDD: (415) 452-5451
Locations: 
John Adams Campus
1860 Hayes Street
San Francisco, CA 94117 
Ocean Campus
50 Phelan Ave San Francisco, CA 94112
Notes: Students can make an appointment to see a DSPS counselor at the Mission, Downtown, Chinatown, and Southeast campuses by calling (415) 452-5481.
________________
Things To Know
Eligible Population: Individuals with a disability that causes a limitation in an educational setting. 
Faith Based: No


Direct Services:  Access to Internet; Mental Health Treatment; Medical Care; Disability Management Counseling; Group Counseling/Therapy, Test-Taking Anxiety Workshops; Basic/Remedial Education; College & Graduate Education; Creative or Performing Arts Programs; English as a Second Language; GED & High School Education; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Placement. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
 
________________


City College of San Francisco  Guardian Scholars Program
Our mission is to make the dream of attending college a reality for former foster youth or out of home placement youth in the juvenile justice system.  
www.ccsf.edu/en/student-services/student-counseling/guardians-scholars-program.html


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Receptionist
Phone: (415) 239-3279 
Hours: Monday –Thursday, 8:00am to 5:00pm; Closed Friday.
Location: 
Guardian Scholars Program
50 Phelan Avenue
Multi-Use Building
Room MU298
San Francisco CA, 94112


Notes: Confirmation of foster youth or out-of-home placement status is required. Foster Youth Status (Referral from County Human Services agency); Out of Home Placement Status (Referral from County Juvenile Justice agency or State Social Services Agency). Drop-in services provided; appointments made on request.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English,Spanish. Additional language translation possible.
What to Bring: Verification of foster youth or out of home placement status for at least one year when minor. Program will assist client in getting documentation.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18-25 who have experienced foster care.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Rental Move-in Assistance; Transitional Housing Referrals; Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Storage Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment Referrals; Medical Care Referrals; Intensive Case Management; Mentorship; Basic/Remedial Education; Employment Training; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Legal Rights Workshops on Housing, Education, Employment; Summer College Readiness Program. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
  
________________


City College of San Francisco  Second Chance Program
The Extended Opportunity Programs and Services (EOPS) Second Chance program at City College of San Francisco (CCSF) serves students who are formerly incarcerated, offering them education as an alternative to incarceration. Through understanding and addressing the unique needs of this student population, the Second Chance program provides comprehensive academic support services with the goal of increasing their probability for academic success, while simultaneously reducing the likelihood of recidivism. www.ccsf.edu


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Charles E. Moore, Outreach Recruiter/Community Liaison 
Email: cemoore@ccsf.edu 
Phone: (415) 239-3075 Fax: (415) 239-3514
Location: City College of San Francisco – EOPS, 50 Phelan Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94112  
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 2:00pm.
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed, but appointments are highly recommended. Applicants on probation or parole need to provide verification of their status from their probation/parole officer.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; Proof of SF Residency. Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Individuals, ages 18 and older. Must be highly motivated and have a strong desire to be in college and to participate in higher education.  Good to be clean and sober or actively participating in 12-step or other recovery program, if applicable.
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: Assist w/Matriculation & Application; Peer Counseling; Tutors; Book Vouchers; Academic Advising; Educational Planning; Vocational Education; Associate Degree; Transfer Programs. 


In the Spotlight:  Ray Bursey




Ray Bursey was born in Los Angeles and raised in San Francisco.  Battling a life-long addiction to drugs, he spent 30 years of his life in and out of jail and prison.  In 2010, upon release from state prison, Ray entered a residential treatment program at HealthRIGHT 360 in San Francisco.  




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Ray Bursey\Ray Bursey.jpg 

After completing treatment, Ray pursued his goals and graduated from the Area Truck Driving Academy in Santa Clara where he received his Commercial Class A license.  Ray is currently employed at HealthRIGHT360 where he is the head of transportation.
________________


City College of San Francisco  Way Pass Women’s Aftercare Program
The Women’s Aftercare Program and Services is a collaborative project with City College of San Francisco, under the auspices of the Health Science Department and the Women’s Studies Department. We are designed to address the unique needs of self-identified women who are formerly incarcerated. We serve women coming home from prisons, jails, and drug programs. It is our belief that education is the best alternative to incarceration and it is our desire to assist our sisters in their academic endeavors. 


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Phoebe Vanderhorst
Phone: (415) 452-4889 
Email: waypass@gmail.com 
Hours: Tuesday – Thursday, 12:00pm to 5:00pm when school is in session or by appointment.
Location: City College of San Francisco – Way Pass, 50 Phelan Avenue, Multi-Use Building MUB 301-C, San Francisco, CA 94112 
Notes: No referral needed. 


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: Positive attitude
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; other disabilities will be accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Free to any current City College student. 
Eligible Population: Formerly incarcerated women.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Case Management; Help with Registration Forms; Informal Counseling and Support; Class Planning and Management; Support Groups and Workshops.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


Five Keys Charter School
Five Keys Charter School provides basic adult educational options for obtaining a High School Diploma or High School Equivalency.  Our goal is to increase educational levels for successful re-entry, finding employment and reintegrating into the community. Class times and schedules are flexible, offering students classroom based instruction, independent study and online learning. Five Keys partners with respected CBOs that provide wrap around support services that our students need to meet their educational and career goals.  We have over 20 community locations throughout San Francisco where a teacher is integrated into the program model so education, treatment or work readiness is integrated into education.  www.fivekeyscharter.org 


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Administrative Office
Phone: (415) 734-3310 Fax: (415) 734-3314
Address:  70 Oak Grove, San Francisco, CA  94107
Notes: Free education.  GED test is paid for by Five Keys.  No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome at 70 Oak Grove and 1800 Oakdale.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese.
Accessibility: 70 Oak Grove is not wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 and older, 16 and above at 1601 Lane St location. 
Faith Based: No.



Locations:
Goodwill Industries:  Comprehensive Access Point (CAP), 1500 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA, 94103, (415) 730-3218
Arriba Juntos: 1850 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA, 94103, (415) 730-3218
Asian Neighborhood Design:  1245 Howard Street, San Francisco, CA, 94103, (415) 730-3218
Bayview YMCA: 1601 Lane Street, San Francisco, CA , 94124 (415) 730-3218
CASC: 564 6th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103, (415) 489-7320
CCSF Southeast Campus: 1800 Oakdale Street, San Francisco, CA 94124, (415) 821-2400
Ella Hill Hutch Community Center:  1050 McAllister Street, San Francisco, CA, 94115 (415) 730-3218
FACES SF:  Visitation Valley Neighborhood Access Point, 1099 Sunnydale Ave, 2nd Floor, San Francisco, CA, 94134, (415)308-1689
HSA/MEDA: 3120 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA, 94114,(415) 730-3218
Mission Economic Development Agency: 2301 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA  (415) 730-3218
SFAPD Learning Center: 850 Bryant Street, San Francisco, CA  94103, (415) 553-1924
Thomas Paine Square Community Center:   1086 Golden Gate Avenue, #G, San Francisco, CA, 94115,  (415) 929-1104
TURF/Sunnydale Housing: 1652 Sunnydale Ave, San Francisco, CA, 94134 (415) 730-3218
Visitation Valley Strong Family: (ESL only) 50 Raymond Street, San Francisco, CA  94134, (415) 730-3218
WANAP Success Center:  1449 Webster Street, San Francisco, CA, 94115, (415) 730-3218
Women’s Resource Center:  930 Bryant St., San Francisco, CA, 94103, (415) 734-3150


Direct Services: Basic/Remedial Education; English as a Second Language; GED & High School Education; Reading/Literacy; Vocations Education, Independent Study, Intensive Case Management and Re-Entry Support Groups.
________________


San Francisco Conservation Corps
The San Francisco Conservation Corps (SFCC) is a non-profit job and academic training organization serving young people ages 18-26.   www.sfcc.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Jeff Bostic, Recruitment Manager 
Phone: (415) 928-7417 x310 Fax: (415) 771-4299
Email: jbostic@sfcc.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 7:30am to 4:30pm
Location: 102 Fort Mason, San Francisco, CA  94123
Notes: Weekly info/interview session every Tuesday at 2:30pm.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: Will assist individuals get the required documents for orientation.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, ages 18-26. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Employment Placement; Assistance/Guidance Regarding Benefits (SSI, GA, TANF, etc.); Counseling; Employment Retention; Employment Training; High School Diploma; Help/Vouchers to Get State ID; Life Skills; Literacy/Basic Education; Mentoring; Transit Vouchers. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






San Francisco Public Library  Project Read
Our mission is to provide free instruction for English-speaking adults (18 or older) who want to improve their basic reading and writing skills, thereby enabling access to great opportunities in their lives. www.projectreadsf.org    www.sfpl.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 557-4388 Fax: (415) 557-4375
Email: projectread@sfpl.org 
Hours: Monday: 10am-6pm; Tuesday - Thursday 9am-8pm; Friday: 12pm to 6pm; Saturday 10am-6pm
Location: Project Read -- Main Library 5th Floor, 100 Larkin St.  SF, CA 94102 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins for interview allowed. Further appointments will be scheduled.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: Stable housing, working phone, 90 days clean and sober, over 18 years of age. 
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services:  Access to Internet; Mentorship; Outreach; Basic/Remedial Education; GED & High School Education; Reading/Literacy; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Voting Outreach & Education; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


San Francisco State University (ASI)  Project Rebound 
Project Rebound sees education as an alternative to mass incarceration. We seek to increase opportunities to become productive and responsible citizens, decrease the risk of recidivism, motivate incarcerated individuals to strive to change their lives, and interrupt the path of youth headed toward incarceration.   http://asi.sfsu.edu/asi/programs/proj_rebound/about.html 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Jason Bell
Phone: (415) 405-0954 Fax: (415) 338-0522 
Email: projectrebound@asi.sfsu.edu 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 1650 Holloway Avenue, 
CCSC T-138, San Francisco State University,
San Francisco, CA 94132 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed, but appointments are recommended. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. Translators may be available for other languages.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; Proof of SF Residency.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals, 18 and older. A high school diploma or GED is required.  Some services may not be available to registered sex offenders. May not have prior convictions on SFSU grounds. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Books/Class Materials; Access to Internet; Food Vouchers; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Anger Management; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; College & Graduate Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
In the Spotlight:  Jason Bell


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Jason Bell\Jason Bell.jpg 









In May 2005, Jason earned a BA degree in Sociology with an emphasis in Crime, Law and Punishment .  Jason then went on to further his education receiving a Master’s Degree in Counseling from San Francisco State University (SFSU) in 2011.  
 
Jason is currently the full-time Director of Project Rebound, which matriculates individuals into San Francisco State University directly from the criminal/legal system.  In addition to Project Rebound, Jason’s is also an adjunct professor in Sociology, Criminal Justice, and Counseling at SFSU.



Employment
Fair Chance Ordinance San Francisco   Employment/Housing Policy
On August 13, 2014, San Francisco’s Fair Chance Ordinance went into effect. The Ordinance requires some housing providers and employers to review an individual’s qualifications before inquiring about their arrest and conviction record. This ordinance applies to employers with 20 or more employees, contractors with city contracts over $5,000, and housing providers that have received funding from the City. 




Insert fair Chance pdf but leave above text
________________


Access Points


Access Point System
Access Points are intended to provide a robust network of workforce services for San Francisco residents. Services include career planning, job search assistance, and retention services in order to enhance the skills and aptitudes of San Francisco’s workforce and to assist job seekers with finding employment as quickly as possible. Access Points provide job search assistance, career planning and exploration, job preparation workshops, training opportunities, access to resource rooms with computers, fax, and copy machines, unemployment information, and the availability of supportive services including childcare and transportation. Through the Access Points, all residents have access to current job listings, vocational assessments, job placement services and career counseling services, and can learn whether they are eligible for specific employment related programs, benefits, and services throughout the city.
Website: www.workforcedevelopmentsf.org


Access Points and Affiliate Site Hours, Locations, and Phone Numbers


Comprehensive Access Point: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
1500 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103; (415) 575-4570


Bayview Neighborhood Access Point: Monday-Friday, 8:00am – 5:00pm, extended hours on Tuesdays until 8:00pm
1715 Yosemite Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94124; (415)822-3491


Chinatown Neighborhood Access Point:  Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
601 Jackson Street, San Francisco, CA 94133; (415) 677-7500

Mission Neighborhood Access Point:  Monday – Friday, 9:00am – 5:00pm
2301 Mission Street, Ste 301, San Francisco, CA 94110; (415) 282-3334 


Western Addition Neighborhood Access Point: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
1449 Webster Street, San Francisco, CA 94115; (415) 549-7000


Visitacion Valley Neighborhood Access Point:  Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
1099 Sunnydale Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94134; (415) 239-8705


Affiliate Sites
Civic Center EDD Career Center*: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
801 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA 94102; (415) 749-7503 
*Must present Right to Work Documents


Mission Center HSA Career Link Center:  Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
3120 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94110; (415) 401-4800
________________
Reentry Navigator: Employment Services for Individuals with Criminal Backgrounds

The Reentry Navigator program assists Comprehensive Access Point (CAP) customers with criminal backgrounds in navigating through the challenges of returning home and preparing to re-enter the workforce. The Reentry Navigator provides guidance and resources to Comprehensive Access Point staff and employers on how to maximize opportunities for re-entering individuals. 

The Reentry Navigator provides customers with job search workshops, tailored discussions for individuals with criminal backgrounds, initial one on one case management services, referrals and resources regarding record expungement, housing, transportation, substance abuse and other benefits, and assistance with accessing training programs and services. 

The Reentry Navigator has orientation; 
-          1st Wednesday of each month at Goodwill Industries – 1500 Mission Street 
-          3rd Wednesday of the month orientation is held at one of the various CAP’s in San Francisco

For more Information contact: Isabel Perez (415) 575-4538
Email: IPerez@sfgoodwill.org



CityBuild Pre-Apprenticeship Training Academy
The CityBuild Academy, administered by the Office of Economic and Workforce Development (OEWD), works in partnership with San Francisco City departments, construction trade unions and contractors, City College of San Francisco, and community-based organizations. CityBuild provides outreach, recruitment, training, and referral services to job seekers, employers, and contractors working in San Francisco’s construction industry. The CityBuild Academy consists of a structured 18-week pre-apprenticeship training program to prepare students for employment in a variety of skilled trades. Orientations are held throughout the Comprehensive and Neighborhood Access Points. For information regarding the next upcoming orientation, please contact CityBuild at: (415) 701-4848 or visit:  http://workforcedevelopmentsf.org/trainingprograms/


RAMP-SF (Reconnecting All through Multiple Pathways)
RAMP-SF is a 2 week job readiness program that helps San Francisco young adults (18- 24 years old) connect with career opportunities that match-up with their individual goals and needs. The central feature of RAMP-SF is a paid 7-week job readiness training program that includes wrap-around support services, classroom-based learning, hands-on team building, physical exercise, substance abuse and mental health services, and a work-based learning experience. Upon successful completion, youth have the potential of being connected to "next step" employment, training or education opportunities. For more information contact: Jeff Bostic at (415) 928-7417 x310, jbostic@sfcc.org

HealthCare Academy
The HealthCare Academy offers training in health care occupations that are growing and in demand to prepare job seekers for entry into the health care industry.  Trainings include Personal Caregiver, Home Health Aide, Certified Nursing Assistant and Medical Administrative Assistant.  In addition to vocational training, the HealthCare Academy provides work experience opportunities, job readiness training and placement assistance to training participants. Furthermore, the Academy offers job search skills training and placement assistance for career advancement to soon-to-be and recent graduates of healthcare training programs at City College of San Francisco and others in the health care field. For information regarding the next upcoming orientation, please contact the Office of Economic and Workforce Development (OEWD) at: (415) 701-4848 or visit www.workforcedevelopment.org/trainingprograms


Hospitality Initiative
The Hospitality Initiative offers a broad range of employment and training services to job seekers that help support the growth of a diverse and well qualified hospitality sector workforce in San Francisco. The Initiative provides job readiness training (customer service focused) and several vocational skills training tracks in Culinary, Guard Card/Security and Janitorial/Maintenance. Job placement assistance is also offered to training graduates as well as job seekers with related work experience in the sector.  For information regarding the next upcoming information session, please contact the Office of Economic and Workforce Development (OEWD) at: (415) 701-4848 or visit www.workforcedevelopment.org/trainingprograms.


TechSF
Tech SF offers a range of training programs in high growth IT occupations that are currently in demand, including Networking & Security, Tech Support & Administration, Programming, and Multimedia, in order to prepare San Francisco's residents for entry into careers in the Information Technology Industry. TechSF provides vocational skills training, work experience opportunities, and offers job placement assistance and career advancement to training participants and other individuals working in the IT field. For information regarding the next upcoming orientation, please contact the Office of Economic and Workforce Development (OEWD) at: (415) 701-4848 or visit www.workforcedevelopment.org/trainingprograms.


In the Spotlight:  Joe Bluford




In 2009, Joe volunteered with the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department (SFSD) Re-Entry Program, which later turned into an internship, and eventually changed his life.  In 2011 Joe was hired by San Francisco Pretrial Diversion as a case manager and facilitator.  In 2013 he began a new position with the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice (CJCJ) as a Transitional Specialist, assisting individuals involved in the criminal justice system . 
 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\joe Blueford\Joe Blueford.jpg 

Currently, he works with Leaders in Community Alternatives (LCA) as a Barrier Removal/ Discharge Navigator, at the Community Assessment and Services Center (CASC), a partnership between SF Adult Probation and LCA.  Joe was married in 2012 and lives in San Francisco with his wife and 5 children.


 
________________


Anders and Anders Foundation    
To break the cycle of recidivism through job opportunities. www.andersandandersfoundation.org
 To Get Connected
Contact Person: Terry Anders, Director
Phone: (415) 309-6330 
Email: andersandanders6@yahoo.com 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am-7:00pm
Location: 1460 McKinnon Ave. #206
San Francisco, CA 94124
Notes: No referral needed. Please call for appointment. No drop-ins.




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, some Spanish 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card. Program will assist client in getting these.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals (men, women, veterans), ages 18 and older, who are formerly incarcerated or have struggled with addiction.
Faith Based: No
Direct Services: Assistance with Union Dues:  Assistance with Work Tools and Clothing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Access to Computers; Addiction Counseling; Mentorship; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Basic Remedial Education; Employment Training (18 week pre-apprentice green construction training); Employment Placement (union trades—placement in 26 trades); Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Professional Clothing. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






Arriba Juntos  Power Up Youth
Arriba Juntos provides educational and employment programs on a citywide basis serving many neighborhoods and many different ethnic groups and cultures. Its mission is to promote economic self sufficiency through employment services and vocational education.  www.arribajuntos.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Mark Aquino, Youth Program Coordinator
Phone: (415) 401-4931 Fax: (415) 401-4899
Email: maquino@arribajuntos.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
________________


Things To Know
Eligible Population: All individuals, ages 14-24, including pregnant women, women with children, families, and individuals on Juvenile Probation.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Youth Computer Lab; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Interview Attire; Prepared Meals on Thursdays and Snacks for Clients; Personal Hygiene Items; Postal Services; Transit Vouchers for WIA-Qualified Clients; Mental Health Specialist for Victims and Witnesses of Violence; GED Program; Application for Food Stamps; Employment and Job Readiness Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.












America Works of California  Employment Placement Services
America Works lifts people out of poverty using its unique brand of intensive, personalized, employment services.  Called “a company with a conscience,” it was founded in 1984 by social activist and entrepreneur Peter Cover.   America Works’ guiding principle is the belief that the best way to lift people out of poverty is to help them find a job—real private sector jobs.  In other words, it believes that work first works best.  www.americaworks.com
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake
Phone: (415) 552-9676  Fax: (415) 671-4009
Location:  1663 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Contact Person: America Works Staff 
Phone: (415) 489-7318  Fax: (415) 671-4009
Location:  CASC, 564 6th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm. 
Notes: Clients must be referred by San Francisco Adult Probation.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: CA ID, Social Security Card.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals supervised by the San Francisco Adult Probation Department.  Must be referred by San Francisco Adult Probation.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Employment Placement; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Access to Internet; Assistance with Resumes; Interview Clothes.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
In the Spotlight:  Garry Walker


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\garry\Garry Walker.jpg 





Garry Walker became deeply entrenched in gangs and criminal lifestyle at a young age.  After numerous stints in county jail and state prison he was determined to change.  After completing residential treatment for substance abuse, Garry obtained his Class A license and began driving trucks. Determined to help others, he was hired as a case manager working with clients from the criminal justice system.  


Garry mentors a number of men and women transitioning back into society from jails, prisons, and residential treatment programs and serves as a support system and role model for individuals who aspire to be successful but find it difficult to break their ties to the lifestyle they have known for a number of years. Garry now works for America Works of California where he continues to help formerly incarcerated individuals find employment and live successful lives.


________________


Asian Neighborhood Design  Construction Training Program
Our mission is to reduce poverty by building communities and providing opportunities for low-income residents to become economically self sufficient. www.andnet.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Reception
Phone: (415) 575-0423 
Fax: (415) 575-0425
Email: info@andnet.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 7:00pm to 3:30pm. 
Orientation are Thursdays, 10:00am
Location: 1021 Mission St. San Francisco, CA  94103 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome, but orientations are held every Thursday at 10am.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Proof of SF Residency.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, ages 17 and older, women with children, all families. Individuals with criminal convictions for a sex offense are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Light Meals; Access to Phones; Transit Vouchers; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Mentorship; Post-Incarceration Support; Basic/Remedial Education; GED and High School Education with Five Keys Charter School On-Site; Job Skills; Job Readiness; Job Placement; Construction Job Training; Employment Retention; Money Management/Personal Financial Education.  Referrals provided for mental health treatment, medical care, dental care, vision care, trauma recovery services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




________________


California Pacific Medical Center  PEP Jobs
The mission of PEP Jobs is to serve people with epilepsy and/or brain injuries in navigating a career path, including finding and maintaining suitable employment, offering the highest quality assistance possible. www.cpmc.org/pepjobs
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tom Post or Lia Kantor, Employment Coordinators
Phone: Tom Post:  (415) 600-4875;  
Lia Kantor:  (415) 600-4878
Fax: (415) 600-4879
Email: infopep@sutterhealth.org 
Location: CPMC Davies Campus, 45 Castro Street, B-Level, South Tower, San Francsico, CA  94114
Notes: Referral from CA Department of Rehabilitation - 301 Howard St, San Francisco, CA 94105. Call 415-904-4100. No Drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. Translation services available.
What to Bring: Proof of right-to-work documents such as:  State-Issued ID; Social Security Card.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals, ages 18 and older, with a medical diagnosis of epilepsy or traumatic/acquired brain injury. Must be clean and sober for at least 90 days prior to intake.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






Center On Juvenile And Criminal Justice  Employment Services
The Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice (CJCJ) San Francisco Training Partnership and Homeless Employment Collaborative offers program participants referrals to short-term trainings, job search workshops, job placements, life skills training that prepares them for employment, to return to school, or to enroll and participate in an occupational or vocational training programs. www.cjcj.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Employment Services
Phone: (415) 621-5661
Location: 40 Boardman Place, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referral necessary.  Appointments are preferred but drop-ins will be seen.    
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: CA ID; Social Security Card.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: All individuals, ages 18 and older who are homeless.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:  Job Readiness/Life Skills; Employment Training; Vocational Training; Employment Retention; Access to internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License/CA ID; Case Management.










Charity Cultural Services Center  CityBuild Academy
Charity Cultural Services Center (CCSC) offers a variety of vocational training programs.  The goal of the CityBuild program is to provide San Francisco residents the opportunity to receive vocational training and enter the union trades post graduation from the 18 week curriculum. 
www.sfccsc.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Calvin Phan, Program Coordinator
Phone: (415) 989-8224  x102
Location: 731 Commercial Street, San Francisco, CA  94108
Notes: Appointments are preferred but drop-ins will be seen.  Clients who are interested in a career in construction must be SF residents.  
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Vietnamese.  Interpreter service available.
What to Bring: Driver’s License; Social Security Card.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: All individuals, ages 18 and older (171/2 ok with written permission from parents).  To enter CityBuild all clients must have a valid CDL and a high school diploma/GED.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:  Construction Training; Assistance Getting Driver’s License and Other ID; High School Diploma/GED; Vocational Education; Job Readiness; Employment Placement; Case Management; Access to Internet.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.  




















































DEFY VENTURES 
Defy Ventures is a non-profit organization that works with individuals who have had previous criminal justice involvement (18+ years and older) to create profitable enterprises that sustain them and their families over time. We support emerging entrepreneurs in the launch of their ventures by offering intensive hands-on entrepreneurship training, character development, mentoring, business incubation, financing opportunities and holistic personal development services. 


In 2014, Defy switched from a brick-and-mortar classroom training program to a “blended learning model” that leverages technology to equip people with criminal histories to become successful, legal entrepreneurs and business leaders. The blended learning model combines online training in entrepreneurship, employment and leadership with in-person executive mentoring, hands-on entrepreneurial team challenges, character-building exercises, and Shark Tank-style business plan competitions. 


Defy’s key strategic partners are the 3,000+ private sector volunteers (and many of their companies) who have given 13,500+ hours to mentoring and teaching our EITs, provided pro bono business development services to EITs and to Defy, and served on our governing and advisory boards. In the Bay Area, Defy works with criminal justice partners and nonprofit re-entry organizations such as The Last Mile, HealthRIGHT360, Impact Hub, Stride Center, St. Vincent de Paul of Alameda County, and Community Works West to recruit Bay Area EITs (Entrepreneurs in Training). We partner with leading private sector professionals to teach courses and develop training content, including venture capitalist and founder of Draper University Tim Draper in San Mateo, faculty members from the Harvard and Stanford Business Schools, marketing guru Seth Godin, and former NYSE CEO Duncan Niederauer.  www.defyventures.org




To Get Connected
Contact Person: Melissa Gelber-O’Dell
Phone: (646) 661-3960 ext 102  
Email: recruiting@defyventures.org
Hours: By appointment.
Location: Bay Area.
Notes: No referral necessary, call first for an appointment 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English
What to Bring: N/A
Accessibility: All locations are ADA compliant.
Client fees, if any: Yes—however, scholarships and payment plans are available.
Eligible Population:  Adults (18+) who have experienced criminal justice involvement
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: Real World Business Education; Executive Level Mentorship; Seed Capital to Start, Incubate and Scale Legitimate, Legal Enterprises.




















Department of Rehabilitation
The California Department of Rehabilitation works in partnership with consumers and other stakeholders to provide services and advocacy resulting in employment, independent living and equality for individuals with disabilities. www.rehab.cahwnet.gov


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 904-7100 (Voice)
(415) 904-7138 (TTY)
(415) 904-7100 (TTY)
Location: 301 Howard Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105
Notes: Orientations are held on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 2:00pm and on Wednesdays at 8:30am.



________________



Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: State-Issued photo ID. Medical records or documentation of disability.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilites are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: Individuals with a documented disability. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Individualized Service Plan; Counseling; Transportation Assistance; Vocational Training; Assistance Getting and/or Maintaining Employment. Referrals to other resources available as needed. 
________________


Episcopal Community Services  CHEFS
It is our mission to train homeless individuals in culinary arts and to assist them in finding and keeping employment, in order to support their move out of homelessness. www.ecs-sf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Sally Ray or Emile Sanders, Employment Specialist
Phone: Sally Ray:  (415) 487-3300  x6115
Emile Sanders: (415) 487-3300 x1107 
Fax: (415) 487-3330
Email: 
sray@ecs-sf.org or esanders@ecs-sf.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9am to 5pm
Location: 165Natoma Street
San Francisco, CA  94103 
Notes: Intake takes place at several points throughout the year, and requires three professional references. No formal referral form is needed, and drop-ins are welcome. Please call or write for more information. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: Staff will assist cleints with necessary documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated. Note: Student must be able to work safely in a small kitchen.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: Must be homeless and SF resident.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Permanent Housing; Access to Internet; Clothing; 
Prepared Lunches; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Intensive Case Management; Post-Incarceration Support; Basic/Remedial Education; GED & High School Education; Vocational Education; Employment Training and Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
  
________________


Goodwill Industries of San Franciso, San Mateo and Marin Counties One Stop Career Link Center, Reentry Navigator and Other Services  
Goodwill Industries supports people from all walks of life so that they can enhance their vocational development and return to the workforce. It helps to remove barriers to self sufficiency and to restore dignity to participants through training and job placements. The Reentry Navigator program helps formerly incarcerated individuals navigate citywide resources and to provide job readiness training, job development, and job placement assistance. www.sfgoodwill.org 
To Get Connected
One Stop Career Link Center
Phone: (415) 575-4570 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Notes: Attend a One Stop Orientation. Orientations are offered Monday – Friday at 10:00am.

Reentry Navigator: Isabel Perez
Phone: (415) 575-4538 Fax: (415) 575-2170
Email: IPerez@sfgoodwill.org
Hours: Please call to make an appointment.
Location: 1500 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103  
Notes: No referral needed. 


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; Proof of SF Residency. Program will assist client in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No cost to participants.
Eligible Population: All individuals who obtain a One Stop Card may access services. All individuals with involvement in the criminal justice system may meet with the Reentry Navigator.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Drivers License or Other ID; Clothing Vouchers; Transit Vouchers; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; English as a Second Language; GED & High School Education; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement Services; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Phone/Voicemail; Vocational Education; Hotel Vouchers; Housing Resources; Retail/Warehouse Operation Training; Criminal Justice Navigator; Bus Tokens. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


























Mission Hiring Hall  Employment Services
Mission Hiring Hall’s (MHH) purpose is to meet the immediate and long-term employment needs of San Francisco’s employers and its low- and moderate-income, unemployed and underemployed residents. MHH offers a variety of employment services/programs including the CityBuild Academy, Construction Administration and Professional Services Academy, Hospitality Initiative, and Homeless Employment Services.  www.missionhiringhall.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Front Desk
Phone: (415) 626-1919 x100  
Location: 3080 16th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Hours: Monday – Thursday, 9:00am to 5:00pm; Friday 9:00am to 4:30pm
Notes:  Orientations/Registration is the first step to receiving services. Intakes are Monday at 9:30am

________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Cantonese, Mandarin, Russian.
What to Bring: CA ID; Social Security Card; Proof of SF Residency. Program will assist client in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years and older.  Must be a San Francisco resident.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Employment Placement; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Access to Internet; Assistance with Resumes; CityBuild Academy, CAPSA & STEP.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 


In the Spotlight:  Tulio Cardoza


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Tulio Cardoza\Tulio Cardoza.jpg 







After serving 7 years in state prison, Tulio successfully transitioned from prison to a career as an engineering lead at LaunchPodium, a tech company in San Francisco. Tulio’s preparation began in custody while participating in opportunities like Patten University and other programs offered at San Quentin State Prison. He is a founding graduate of The Last Mile, a program of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, which works with prisoners to build relevant skills in technology and other areas.
Tulio has worked as a business analyst at the technology accelerator, KickLabs, and has spent countless hours mastering WordPress as an independent contractor. In 2014, Tulio taught Web Design and Coding through Five Keys Charter School, to residents of the San Francisco County Jail and the San Francisco Adult Probation Department.
________________


Jewish Vocational Services (JVS)
At JVS, we can help you with the skills and resources you need to find the right job. Our job search assistance program is specially tailored to meet your particular employment needs. We work with job seekers that truly represent the broad diversity of San Francisco, and we work with some of the best Bay Area companies in healthcare, administration, reatil and technology.  Our Technology Center helps people improve their job related computer skills and provides online job search opportunities. You can search for a job; improve your typing speed and Microsoft Office skills with self-paced tutorials; use our software and print library to explore your career options; build your resume, cover letter, and basic skills; and study for the GED, NCLEX-PN, and NCLEX-RN.  www.jvs.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Alicia Velez-Rivers, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 782-6282 Fax: (415) 391-3617
Email: avelez-rivers@jvs.org 


Technology Center Contact Person: Jennifer Volk, TAC Coordinator
Phone: (415) 782-6217 Fax: (415) 391-3617
Email: jvolk@jvs.org@jvs.org 


Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm. 
Location: 225 Bush Street, Suite 400 - West Lobby, San Francisco, CA 94104 
Notes: No referral needed. Get started online at www.jvs.org/welcome or attend a drop-in Welcome Session (every Wednesday at 1:00pm.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Russian, English, Cantonese, Spanish. Note: Non-native speakers are welcome to access the Technology Center facilities although the job search resources are primarily in English.
What to Bring: Authorization to work in the United States.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals who are clean and sober and comply with a work-focused professional facility. 
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Employment Training; Job Readiness; Access to Internet. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


In the Spotlight:  Eli Crawford 


Eli is a native of San Francisco and was raised in the Western Addition neighborhood. Eli entered the criminal justice system as a juvenile, then later on went to prison. He has spent over 40 years incarcerated.   After he was released from federal prison, Eli reentered the world with a new vision.  




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Eli Walker\Eli Walker.jpg 

Upon his release, Eli began to educate himself about his community and later studied Administration of Justice at City College of San Francisco. He is currently the President of the New Community Leadership Foundation and founder of “Raw Talk for Life.”  He teaches personal and professional development in the San Francisco County Jail and in his community. 




________________


Positive Resource Center  PRC Employment Services
Positive Resource Center’s Employment Services Program provides vocational rehabilitation and job search services to people with HIV/AIDS or with mental health disabilities. Our Employment Services Program assists clients who are considering temporary work, self-employment, permanent part-time or full-time work, or training and education opportunities. Positive Resource Center is the only employment service provider in the San Francisco Bay Area that has specifically developed its program for people who are facing multiple employment barriers. PRC Employment Services supports a whole person approach, using harm reduction, and supports a self-efficacy model to support people with disabilities to live independent lives. www.positiveresource.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Joe Ramirez-Forcier, Managing Director
Phone: (415) 972-0831 Fax: (415) 777-1770
Email: joer@positiveresource.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm. Orientation is every Weds at 2:00pm.
Location: 785 Market Street, 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: No referral needed for HIV+ clients  Clients with disabilities can attend the orientation. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Program will assist client in getting necessary documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Facilities approved by CARF and CA DoR.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals with HIV/Mental Health/other disabilities.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Job Search Center; Anger Management; Conflict Management; Stress Management; Time Management; Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Vocational Counseling; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Vocational Education; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance; Legal Advise and Benefits Representation; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center
Our goal is to assist re-entry clients explore entrepreneurship, because we understand that it is hard to get a job once you have a record.  www.rencenter.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: April Gilbert, Program Director (SOMA)
Phone: (415) 541-8580 Fax: (415) 541-8589
Email: agilbert@rencenter.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 275 5th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: No referral needed. Orientations offered twice monthly.  Call for details.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Sliding Scale.  Varied depending on program.
Eligible Population: All individuals.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Business Planning; Start-up Training; Business Marketing Training; Mentorship; Credit Repair; Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Employment Law. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


SF Clean City Coalition  Employment Partnership Program
Clean City Partnership Program provides neighborhood-based transitional employment, training and job placement assistance to homeless and low-income individuals through community improvement projects and vocational training.  We provide participants with paid employment, job readiness assistance, and assist clients in permanent full-time employment.  www.sfcleancity.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Program Office
Phone: (415) 552-9201 x14 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 7:30am to 4:30pm.
Office Location: 366 Eddy Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. 
Notes: No referral needed. Must attend an orientation to be eligible for employment.  Orientations are offered weekly; please check website for location of orientations.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English and Spanish 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years and older.  Must be a San Francisco resident and able to pass a pre-employment drug test.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Paid Employment; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Access to Internet.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.












The Bread Project  Employment Training Programs
Our mission is to empower individuals with limited resources on their path to self-sufficiency through skills instruction, on-the-job training, and assistance with establishing a career in the food service industry.  We currently offer a three week Bakery Bootcamp and a more in-depth ten week Baking Training Program.  www.breadproject.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Rafi Amini, Intake & Outreach Specialist
Phone:  (888) 282-3522 x902 or (510) 594-1702
Email: rafi@breadproject.org  or info@breadproject.org 
Intake Hours: Thursdays from 10:00am to 2:00pm
Location: 1555 Park Ave #B, Emeryville, CA  94608
Notes: Referrals are preferred.  Drop-ins are allowed for intakes.  Appointments are accepted.  Participants must be able to stand for 8 hours and lift up to 25 pounds.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Dari, Pashtu, Nepali, Chinese.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; Proof of Income; Proof of Address
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: Individuals, 18 years and older who are legally eligible to work in the U.S., no violent or sex offenses in the past 7 years (on a case by case basis), no outstanding warrants, stable housing, and at least 5 months of sobriety.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Vocational Training: Three week Bakery Bootcamp and Ten week Baking Training Program; Employment Placement Assistance; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills.
Toolworks  Janitorial Training/Placement
Toolworks, in partnership with people in disadvantaging conditions, is a human service agency dedicated to providing the tools/resources to promote independence, equality, and personal satisfaction. www.toolworks.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 255-5857
Specific Intake Days and Times: 
Info session every Friday at 1:00pm 
25 Kearny Street, #400        
Training Hours: 6:45am to 11:45am
Location: Office at 25 Kearny Street, #400, San Francisco, CA  94104. Training site on Treasure Island.
Notes: Referrals are not required to attend an info session. Information session every Friday at 1:00pm at Kearny Street location.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, ASL.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Social Security Card; proof of SF Residency; proof of homelessness; proof of disability.  These documents are not necessary to attend an info session.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: Individuals, 18 years and older, who meet both eligibility requirements of HEC Grant: 1) homelessness 2) disabled.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID;  Hygiene/Personal Care Items;  Phone/Voicemail; Intensive Case Management; Mentorship; Vocational Education; Assessment & Application for SSI; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Urban Services YMCA  OMI & API Service Connector Program
OMI Service Connector Program provides job counseling, skill development, and linkages and referrals for unemployed adults in San Francisco.


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Reception 
Phone: 415-406-1370 Fax: 415-406-1371
Email: 
Hours: Drop in hours: Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 10:00am to 12:00pm and 1:00 to 3:00pm, or by appointment. 
Location: 103 Broad Street, San Francisco, CA 94112 
Notes: No referral necessary, call first for an appointment.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese, and Vietnamese
What to Bring: ID, or Proof of SF Residence
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population:  Adults (18+) who reside in District 11 (Oceanview, Merced Heights, Excelsior and Ingleside neighborhoods), along with Asian and Pacific Islander adults living in all of San Francisco.
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: Case Management; Education Planning/Career Counseling; Job and Educational Barrier Removal Assistance; Basic Needs Assistance; Therapy.  Information and referrals to other resources available as needed.  
________________


Notes


	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	


Health & Treatment

Health
Information about accessing healthcare appears in the Identification & Income chapter. Read that chapter for information about how to apply for Healthy San Francisco and affordable health insurance programs. Transitions Clinic (listed in this chapter) specializes in post-prison healthcare. 
San Francisco Behavioral Health Access Center (BHAC), Community Behavioral Health Services, Department of Public Health
The Behavioral health Access Center (BHAC) acts as an entry point into the substance abuse and mental health system-of-care in San Francisco.  BHAC can assess and authorize placement into different levels of care, depending on need.  Services include residential treatment, intensive outpatient services, outpatient services, and other services that assist in reducing barriers to care.  Residents of San Francisco are eligible for services at BHAC.
For substance abuse or mental health treatment referrals, call (415) 503-4730 or toll free 1-800-750-2727.


Languages: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Cantonese, Mandarin, Arabic, Japanese, Vietnamese.


Location: 1380 Howard Street, 1st Floor, San Francisco, CA 94103
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 


California HIV/AIDS Hotline
If you have a question about HIV/AIDS or STDs, call the California HIV/AIDS hotline. A trained phone counselor is available to help you in English or in Spanish.
Toll Free in California:
(800) 367-AIDS (2437)
(888) 225-AIDS (2437) (TTY)
In San Francisco and outside California:
(415) 863-AIDS (2437)
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
(until 9:00pm on Tuesdays)
________________


Website: www.aidshotline.org
Mailing Address:
California AIDS Hotline
995 Market Street, #200
San Francisco, CA  94103
Email Address:
Contact-us@AIDSHotline.org
________________


________________


Alcoholics Anonymous
Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no fees, and there are more than 700 meetings in the area. A complete listing is available at www.aasf.org or through the Intercounty Fellowship of Alcoholics Anonymous:


(415) 674-1821 (from SF)
(415) 499-0400 (from Marin)
Email: help@aasf.org
Mobile Devices: www.aasf.org/m
Location: 1821 Sacramento Street
San Francisco, CA  94109
Oficina Central Hispana:
(415) 554-8811


Narcotics Anonymous
Narcotics Anonymous makes no distinction between drugs, including alcohol. Membership is free, and the group is not affiliated with any organizations outside of NA. Some meetings have specific focuses or may be particularly appropriate for certain people. Meeting schedules, information on wheelchair accessibility, and special foci, are available online, and by calling the NA Helpline, (415) 621-8600.
Mailing Address:
San Francisco Area of Narcotics Anonymous
Area Service Office
The West Bay Conference Center
1290 Fillmore Street #B
San Francisco, CA 94115
Help Line Phone Number: (415) 621-8600 
Email: ASO@sfna.org
Website: www.sfna.org


Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous (FA) 
Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous (FA) is a twelve step program offering a solution for anyone suffering from any form of food addiction including overheating, bulimia, under-eating or food obsession. There are over 30 meetings throughout the San Francisco Bay Area. For more information please visit our web-site at:  www.foodaddicts.org


E-mail: fa@foodaddicts.org 
Phone: (800) 600-6028
________________


Bayview Hunters Point Foundation for Community Improvement Substance Abuse Program
The mission is to build a community that is empowered, clean, safe, and healthy. The Methadone Maintenance Program embraces the San Francisco Department of Public Health’s principles of harm reduction and cultural competency to provide the highest quality of treatment services for our clients. www.bayviewci.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Maisha Bolden
Phone: (415) 822-8200 
Specific Intake Days and Times: Monday, Wedensday, Friday 6:30am-9:30am        
Hours: Monday – Friday, 6:00am to 2:00pm, Saturday and Sunday, 7:00am to 10:00am
Location: 1625 Carroll Avenue, San Francisco, CA  94124 
Notes: No referral needed. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. Translation services available upon request. 
What to Bring: State-issued ID; Social Security Card; Proof of SF Residency.   
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All adults. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Methadone; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Group and Individual Counseling/Therapy.


________________


________________


Central American Resource Center (CARECEN) 
Second Chance Tattoo Removal Program provides tattoo removal services for young adults wishing to remove gang-related tattoos. Dental services include emergency dental care, cleanings, examinations, x-rays, extractions, root canals, fillings, pit and fissure sealants, denture repairs, crowns, and referrals for other dental services. www.carecensf.org
To Get Connected
Phone: For tattoo removal services, call (415) 642-4425 or (415) 642-4400. 
Email:  info@carecensf.org
Specific Intake Days and Times: Call for details.        
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 3101 Mission Street, Suite 101, San Francisco, CA  94110 
Notes: No referral needed. Make an appointment or drop in to inquire.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
How does this program serve individuals whose primary language is not English? For other than Spanish we can access interpretation services. 
What to Bring: Second Chance Tattoo Removal Program Application or Referral.  
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Free to those who qualify.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. For tattoo removal services, ages 12-24 only. Men, Transgender people, Pregnant women. 
Faith Based: No.


 Direct Services: Tattoo Removal. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Community Acupuncture Project Ear Clinic at the American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine (ACTCM)
The American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine’s Community Acupuncture Project brings ACTCM clinical faculty and interns to various locations in San Francisco. On average, ACTCM provides more than 20,000 treatments in its Community Clinic and off-site Community Acupuncture Project (CAP) sites annually. www.actcm.edu
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tracy Tognetti 
Phone: (415) 282-9603 Fax: (415) 282-9037 
Drop-In Clinic Hours: Please call for clinic hours and days
Location: 555 De Haro Street, Room G, San Francisco, CA 94107 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in only. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: The clinic is donation based. However, we will not turn anyone away for a lack of ability to make a donation.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Acupuncture. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




HealthRIGHT 360  Medical Clinics
The mission of HealthRIGHT 360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need. We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community.    www.healthright360.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Jack Cheng or Maribel Baez
Phone: (415) 226-17755 Fax: (415) 746-1941 Locations: 1735 Mission St, 558 Clayton St 
Email: 
scheduleappointment@healthright360.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm (Wednesday until 8pm at 558 Clayton St)
Notes: Must schedule appointment and arrive 20 minutes early. Call for drop-in hours.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: All adults. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Primary and Preventive Health Care; Women’s Health; Birth Control; STD Diagnosis and Treatment; Diabetes Treatment; Asthma Treatment; Chronic Disease Care; Opioid Management; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________
In the Spotlight:  Dominique Leslie


Dominique Leslie spent many years battling addiction.  After she was released from prison she completed treatment at Walden House.  Dominique’s sobriety has played a major role in her accomplishments.  She returned to college and received a Bachelor’s Degree, is a certified Community Health Outreach Worker, a Hepatitis C and HIV counselor, and a CADC certified substance abuse counselor.  






 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Dominique Leslie\Dominique Leslie.jpg 

Dominique is currently employed as a Housing Resource Specialist for the Tenderloin Housing Clinic where she works directly with formerly incarcerated individuals.  In 2015, Dominique was appointed to the Reentry Council of San Francisco by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. 


In the Spotlight:  Ernest Kirkwood




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Ernest Kirkwood\Ernest Kirkwood.jpg 









Ernest served 29 years in state prison and was released in 2012.  Since his release, he has been appointed to the Reentry Council of San Francisco, volunteers at the Juvenile Justice Center, and works for HealthRIGHT360.  He recently completed the Community Health Workers Certificate Program at City College, and does regular outreach in the San Francisco County Jail.
________________


________________


Mission Council on Alcohol Abuse for the Spanish Speaking, Inc.
Mission Council on Alcohol Abuse for the Spanish Speaking, Inc., a non-profit organization, has been committed to the prevention and treatment of alcohol and other drug-related problems for individuals, families, and groups of underserved members of San Francisco communities by providing leadership and community care needs in a safe and culturally relevant setting. www.missioncouncil.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 826-6767, (415) 920-0721
Email: jla@missioncouncil.org 
Hours: Intake, Monday – Friday, 3:00pm to 5:00pm 
Location: 154-A Capp Street, San Francisco, CA 94110
Notes: No referral needed. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, 18 and older.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Culturally Specific Assessments; Outpatient Counseling; Individual/Group Counseling; Drug and Alcohol Education Classes; Drug and Alcohol Testing; Alcoholics Anonymous; Narcotics Anonymous; Employment Services Referrals; Housing Referrals; Collaboration with the San Francisco Drug Court; Domestic Violence Counseling; Dual Diagnosis Assessment and Counseling.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


Mission Neighborhood Health Center  Clinica Esperanza
To provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services to under-served members of the community who reside primarily in the Mission District, with an emphasis on Spanish-speaking and bilingual clients. Our services of HIV care, treatment and prevention, and support to those infected and affected by HIV, seek to improve the lives and health of the community.  www.mnhc.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Allison Rojas
Phone: (415) 552-1013   
Fax: (415) 552-0529 
Email: allisonrojas@mnhc.org 
Hours: Intake, Monday – Friday, 3:00pm to 5:00pm 
Location: 240 Shotwell Street, San Francisco, CA  94110 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed between 3-5pm, M-F.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of SF Residency. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, 18 and older.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Permanent Housing; Rental Move-in Assistance; Transitional Housing; Clothing Vouchers; Food Vouchers; Shower Facilities Referrals; Transit Vouchers for Case Management or Health-Related Appointments as Needed; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Medical Care; Dental Care; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


New Skin  Adult Tattoo Removal
New Skin Adult Tattoo Removal program is a non-profit that removes visible tattoos at a low cost for adults that may hinder them from gainful employment and a peace of mind lifestyle.  
To Get Connected
Phone: (408) 899-9695
Fax: (415) 552-0529 
Email: 
adam.king@newskinadulttattooremoval.org 
Hours: Each Month: 2nd Saturday 8am-4pm; 3rd Saturday & Sunday 2pm-5pm
Location: 1060 Willow Street, San Jose, CA  95125
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed between 3-5pm, M-F.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: All forms are provided by New Skin Adult Tattoo Removal
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees: $80 for 3 minutes or $100 for 5 minutes.
Eligible Population: All individuals and all ages. Clients under age 18 must be accompanied by a parent or guardian. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Tattoo Removal.


South of Market Health Center  
South of Market Health Center is a non-profit community health center that provides comprehensive medical, dental, and podiatry services to individuals, children, and families who have difficulty getting healthcare. We are a full-service clinic in the South of Market Area, providing high quality healthcare to over 5,000 patients every year.
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Any staff
Email: info@smhcsf.org
Main Clinic: 
229 7th Street, San Francisco, CA  94104
Phone: (415) 503-6000
Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8:00am-5:00pm; Friday through Saturday 8:00am-3:30pm.
Senior Clinic (For patients 55+): 
317 Clementina, San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone: (415) 284-2270
Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8:00am-5:00pm; Friday 8:00am-3:30pm.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Farsi, and Chinese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: Families and individuals with little or no health coverage.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: SMHC provides a wide range of high-quality primary medical, disease prevention, dental and podiatry care. Pre-natal and well-baby care, patient education and outreach are also available. 
________________


Transitions Clinic   
Transitions Clinic is a unique primary care clinic dedicated to recently released chronically-ill men and women and their families. Transitional and primary care services are available within the first two weeks upon release from prison. Patients are supported by community health workers who have a history of incarceration.  www.transitionsclinic.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Ron Sanders, Juanita Alvarado, Joseph Calderon: Community Health Workers
Phone: (415) 671-7087 – office; Ron: (415) 933-4403 (cell); Juanita: (415) 730-5357 (cell); Joseph: (415) 676-0816 (cell)  
Email: ronald.sanders@sfdph.org, juanita.alvarado@sfdph.org,  joseph.calderon@sfdph.org
Clinic Hours: Wednesday 8am-12pm, Thursday 8am-12pm, Friday 8am-12pm
Location:  Southeast Health Center
2401 Keith Street, San Francisco Ca 94124  
Public Transportation: T Train, 54, 29
Notes: Community Health Workers are available by phone Monday through Friday 8am-5pm.  No drop-ins, must have appointment scheduled. Can be screened by community health workers by phone. For future doctor’s appointments, please contact community health workers.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, others.
What to Bring: State-issued ID, Social Security Card, and Proof of SF Residency. No additional documentation needed prior to entry, but will need these documents in 30 days for San Francisco insurance program. Program will assist entering clients.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Men, Women, Transgender people, Pregnant women, and families.
Faith Based: No
Community Health Workers Services: All patients are supported by trained community health workers with a history of incarceration. Our clinic partners with many community organizations and are we not funded by the criminal justice system.


Direct Services: Medical Care; Health & Wellness Education; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration support. Referrals to other resources available as needed, including referral for employment, housing, mental health and substance use treatment. Medical care on site: buprenorphine (suboxone), optometry, podiatry, acupuncture, smoking cessation classes, lab services and nutrition. Clothing & food access upon request.
________________


U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs  San Francisco VA Downtown Clinic
The SFVAMC Downtown Clinic offers primary care and a wide array of mental health services, including group and individual counseling, substance abuse, PTSD, and compensated work therapy. The clinic is one of VHA’s first Comprehensive Homeless Veterans Centers providing a full range of services to homeless veterans, and it provides special care to homeless veterans through the Health Care for Homeless Veterans program. The Downtown Clinic is a part of the San Francisco VA Medical Center System. www.sanfrancisco.va.gov
To Get Connected
San Francisco VA Downtown Clinic Location: 401 3rd Street, San Francisco, CA 94107
Phone: (415) 281-5100
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
San Francisco VA Medical Center
Location: 4150 Clement Street, San Francisco, CA 94121
Phone: (415) 221-4810
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Tagalog. Translation services available for other languages.
What to Bring: Discharge form DD214. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None collected here, means test determines fees.
Eligible Population: All veterans of the U.S. Military.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing CWT/TR Program; Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Storage Facilities; Mental Health Treatment; Substance; Abuse Treatment; Medical Care; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Outreach. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Westside Community Services  Services for Adults
Westside Community Services has been providing an array of community-based prevention, mental health, substance abuse, and social services to clients in the City and County of San Francisco for 40 years. Incorporated in 1967, Westside is one of the oldest community-based mental health agencies in the nation. The range of programs and services has varied over the years, while a commitment to providing excellent, high-quality, culturally and community appropriate programs has remained central to the core of the organization.  www.westside-health.org


To Get Connected
Behavioral Health Services
Location: 245 11th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone: (415) 355-0311 
Fax: (415) 355-0349 
Email: crisisclinic@westside-health.org 
outpatient@westside-health.org 
ACT@westside-health.org 
Methadone Maintenance & Detoxification
Location: 1301 Pierce Street, San Francisco, CA 94115 
Phone: (415) 563-8200 
Fax: (415) 563-5985 
Email: methadone@westside-health.org 
HIV Testing, Counseling & Linkages 
AIDS Case Management & Home Care 
Location: 1153 Oak Street, San Francsico, CA
Phone:  (415) 355-0311 
Fax: (415) 355-0358 
Email: AIDS@westside-health.org 
CTL@westside-health.org 
________________




Things to Know 
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
What to Bring: Program may require photo ID or other documentation. Contact Westside for specifics.
Client Fees: Sliding scale. Medi-Cal share of cost, if appropriate. 
Eligible Population: San Francisco residents; other eligibility requirements may apply. Contact program for specifics.
Faith Based: No.





Direct Services: Advocacy; Chemical Dependency Services; Outreach; In-Home Support; Therapeutic Interventions; Care Coordination; Medication Monitoring and Health Screening; Crisis Assessment; Crisis Intervention.


________________


Women's Community Clinic  Women's Community Clinic Outreach Services
The mission of the Women’s Community Clinic is to improve the health and well-being of women and girls. We believe preventive, educational care is essential to lifelong health and that all women deserve excellent health care, regardless of their ability to pay. We work hard to ensure that each client feels comfortable and safe using her voice to direct the care she receives. www.womenscommunityclinic.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 379-7800
Phones staffed: Monday – Friday, 1:00pm to 9:00pm; Tuesday, Friday and Saturday, 9:30am to 1:00pm
Appointment Hours: Monday and Wednesday, 5:00pm to 9:00pm; Tuesday and Thursday, 1:00pm to 9:00pm; Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm; Saturday, 9:00am to 1:00pm.
Drop-in Hours: Tuesdays, beginning at 8:30am. Open until full.
Location: 1833 Fillmore Street, San Francisco, CA  94115
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed. See above.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: All services are free.
Eligible Population: Women, transgender people, 12 years and older, women with children.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Medical Care; Health & Wellness Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________



Residential Treatment Facilities
Temporary housing with structured treatment and services focused on recovery from substance abuse and mental health issues. Transitional housing, including clean and sober housing, is listed in the Housing chapter.
Asian American Recovery Services    
Our primary goal is to change an individual's substance-abusing lifestyle. This change comes about through four fundamental processes. First, individuals must acknowledge their problems, their own roles and responsibilities in abusing substances. Second, they must have the willingness to resolve and change their substance abusing behavior. Third, there needs to be an understanding and reconciliation of any conflict within themselves, their families and cultural traditions. Finally, they need to develop abilities and skills in managing their lives in the social, economic, and political reality of their environment and community. The AARS-residential is a therapeutic community which recognizes the need for providing structure, support and opportunity within a multi-cultural environment. It is a highly structured environment with defined boundaries, both moral and ethical. The program employs community imposed sanctions as well as earned advancement of status and privileges as part of the recovery and growth process. Being part of something greater than oneself is an especially important factor in facilitating positive growth. www.aars.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Stephen Fields, Program Manager
Phone: (415) 541-9404 Fax: (415) 776-1011
Email: sfields@aars.org 
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7days. Intake hours Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 2024 Hayes Street, San Francisco, CA 94117 
Notes: No referral needed. Call or write for appointment. No drop-ins.  This is a smoke free facility.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese. 
What to Bring: Proof of SF Residency, TB Clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fee.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, 18 and older. May not have criminal conviction for sex offense, gang-related offense, or arson. May not be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/ Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Substance; Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps; Assessment & Application for General Assistance; Family Reunification. Referrals to other resources available as needed.














CITYTEAM  Men’s Residential Recovery Program
Cityteam of San Francisco’s Men’s Recovery Program serves men who are seeking treatment in their drug and alcohol addiction.  This long-term, residential program takes a holistic approach, addressing addictions as well as psychological, spiritual, education, and vocational issues.  We provide individual and group counseling, GED prep classes, computer skills training, medical treatment, and community involvement.  www.cityteam.org/san-francisco/
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Recovery Program
Phone: (415) 861-8688 
Email:  sanfrancisco@cityteam.org
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Location:  164 6th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: Please call first for an intake.   
 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID
Accessibility: No.
Client fees: Program fee is 30% of net income not to exceed $500 a month. 
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older.  
Faith Based: Yes.




Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; 12 Step Program; Health and Wellness Education; Anger Management; Case Management; Mentorship; Therapy; Clothing; Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items.  Referrals to other services available as needed.


In the Spotlight:  Robert Smith


Robert began using alcohol and drugs at a young age, which resulted in stints at juvenile hall, and eventually  escalated to state prison.  After four prison terms, he was facing a lengthy sentence when the courts gave him an opportunity to go to the Delancey Street Foundation.  Robert entered Delancey Street in 1998 and stayed for seven years. 






 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Robert Smith\Robert Smith.jpg 

Upon graduating from Delancey, Robert was offered a job at a local moving company, utilizing his Class A driver’s license he earned during his time with Delancey.  After driving trucks across the country for six years, Robert opened his own company in 2011.  RMJ All Around Services, a moving and storage company both owned and operated by Robert, elicits the simple concepts he learned at Delancey.  Robert makes it a point to reach out and employee formerly-incarcerated individuals providing the opportunity they need to be successful.  








Delancey Street Foundation    
Delancey Street is a residential education center for former substance abusers and ex-convicts. Its philosophy is that the people with the problems can teach themselves to become the solution. The program requires a minimum two-year commitment, and many individuals stay for longer. www.delanceystreetfoundation.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 512-5104 Fax: (415) 512-5141
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Location: 600 Embarcadero, San Francisco, CA 94107 
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fee.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, ages 18 older. May not have a criminal conviciton for arson; may not be a registered sex offender; may not have a serious medical/mental health condition requiring medication.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Medical Care Emergency; Anger Management; Mentorship; Basic/Remedial Education; College & Graduate Education; GED & High School; Education; Reading/Literacy; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Voting Outreach & Education; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
In the Spotlight:  Robert Mansfield


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Robert Mansfield\Robert Mansfield.jpg 

Robert Mansfield was released from San Quentin State Prison in 1995.  Upon release, he became  a long-term resident of the Delancey Street Foundation where he graduated magna cum laude with a BA in Urban Studies from San Francisco State University.  More recently, Robert received a Master of Science Degree in Health Communication from Boston University. 
He currently works as communications analyst for UCSF Global Health Sciences, serves on the Equity Advisory Committee to the San Francisco Human Rights Commission, is a member of the Community Advisory Group for the SFMTA Central Subway Project, and has won several awards for fundraising for AIDS Walk San Francisco.  He participated in Leadership San Francisco 2007 and SPIN Academy 14 (a workshop for non-profit communicators), and was recently featured in the Huffington Post 50 Over 50: Career Reinvention, as an individual who has redefined himself professionally. 
________________


Friendship House
Residential treatment facility dedicated to serving American Indian communities, and all people with alcohol/drug abuse issues who would benefit from pro-social model of treatment influenced by American Indian traditions.  www.friendshiphousesf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Laura Gutierrez, Intake 
Phone: (415) 865-0964 Fax: (415) 575-4065
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am-5:00pm
Location: Must call first – Intake done over the phone.
Notes: No referral needed. No drop-ins. Must call for appointment first.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Navajo, and other American Indian languages. 
What to Bring: California-Issued ID and TB Clearance, current within last 6 months. (If ID is from any state other than Calif., a Tribal ID is required.)
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated. 
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: All individuals with no convictions for arson, no serious medical, psychological, or emotional conditions that could interfere with participation in social-model treatment program. Must be clean and sober for at least 72 hours. Women may bring 1 or 2 children ages 0-5.
Faith Based: Yes.
 
Direct Services: Substance Abuse Treatment; Housing; Intensive Case Management; Life Skills Development; Relapse Prevention; Family Counseling/Reunification; Job Readiness Training; Assistance with Transition Back into the Community. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


HealthRIGHT 360  Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Services
The mission of HealthRIGHT 360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need. We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community.    www.healthright360.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Michael Davila, Admissions Director. 
Phone: (415) 226-1775 Fax: (415) 701-7913 
Email: mdavila@healthright360.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:30pm. Intakes end at 5:00pm daily.
Location: Centralized Intake Department, 1735 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome. Please come to Centralized Intake Department.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco Residency, TB Clearance. Program will 
assist entering clients in getting these. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: Women, transgender people, 18 and over, pregnant women. May not be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Transitional Housing; Gender Responsive Facilities; Trauma-Informed Treatment for Women; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education; Application Assistance with Food Stamps, GA & SSI; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Representative Payee Services; CJ Referrals; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education; Clothing; Meals. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Jelani, Inc.  
Residential drug treatment program for families.  
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Norman Mathis, Intake Coordinator. 
Phone: (415) 822-5945 Fax: (415) 822-5943 
Email: nmathis@jelaniinc.org 
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days. Intake hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm.
Locations: 
Jelani House Prenatal Program
1601 Quesada Avenue, San Francisco, CA
Jelani House Family Program
1638 Kirkwood Avenue, San Francisco, CA
Notes: Referrals from family agencies or criminal justice system.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Social Security Card; Proof of Residence; TB Clearance. Preferable, but not completely necessary at intake. Some assistance may be available to help gather these documents. 
Accessibility: Only the Quesada Ave. address is wheelchair- and other disability-accessible.
Client fees, if any: 80% of public assistance received.
Eligible Population: All Individuals and families, including adults with children, and pregnant women. Must not be convicted of sex offense or arson.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Alcohol/Drug Treatment; Access to Benefits (SSI, GA, TANF, et al); Accompany to Court Dates; Anger Management; Childcare; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis; Counseling; Family Reunification; Life Skills; Parenting Support; Perinatal Services; Residential Housing; Services for Children; Trauma Recovery Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.














































In the Spotlight:  Adrian Maldonado


Adrian Maldonado had a 15 year history of heroin addiction and incarceration.  He is currently employed by San Mateo County Correctional Mental Health as an in-custody program counselor with the Choices program, a program where he got clean and sober in 2000 while incarcerated.


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Adrian Maldonado\Adrian Maldonado.jpg 

Adrian is a Delancey Street graduate, has been a long-time community and labor organizer and is currently enrolled in a Master’s Degree program in Counseling Psychology at the University of San Francisco.
The Latino Commission
The Latino Commission program design and methodology are derived from models of culturally-sensitive treatment for Latinos, which have been developed and implemented in the last decade by the Latino Commission. The model incorporates current best practices in services delivery to Latinos utilizing a solid family-centered approach, one that integrates the concepts of conocimiento (self-awareness), respeto (respect for others), and confianza (mutual trust) to create a traditional peer support system. www.thelatinocommission.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Camilo Gonzalez, Intake Coordinator 
Phone: (650) 244-0305 
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 3pm
Intake Address:  301 Grand Ave., Suite 301, S. San Francisco, CA  94080
Locations: Casa Quetzal: 635 Brunswick, San Francisco, CA 94112; Casa Ollin: 161 Margaret Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94112; Aviva House: 1724 Bryant Street, SF, CA 94110
Notes: No referral needed. Appointments are recommended. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Spanish, English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; TB Clearance. Will assist client in getting these. 
Accessibility: Some sites in San Francisco are not wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: All individuals, including adults with children, and pregnant women. Must not be convicted of sex offense.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Substance Abuse Treatment; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Access to Benefits; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Progress Foundation 
Progress Foundation offers medication education, symptom management (mental health), case management, and referrals to other resources. www.progressfoundation.org
To Get Connected
General Information:  Main Office:  (415) 861-0828; La Amistad (415) 285-8100; Clay Street: (415) 776-4647; Progress House: (415) 668-1511; Seniors: (415) 821-0697; Ashbury (women & children): (415) 775-6194; Supported Living Program: Phone: (415) 752-3416 Fax: (415) 752-3483
Residential Treatment Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Supported Living Office: 9:00am to 5:00pm, case manager on-call at all times.
Location: Various Locations. Main Office is 368 Fell Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: Referral required from any case manager, therapist, or psychiatrist.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco residency; TB clearance; a physical within the past 12 months. Program can assist with physical and TB tests.
Accessibility: Avenues, Clay, and Ashbury are wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale; free for individuals with no income.
Eligible Population: All individuals and families, including seniors (age 60 and older) with an Axis I mental health disorder. Must not be registered sex offender, must not have a criminal conviction for arson.  
Faith Based: No. 
Direct Services: Access to Benefits (SSI, GA, TANF, et al); Accompany to Court Dates; Anger Management; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis; Counseling; Family Reunification; Food/Meals; Healthcare; Life Skills; Parenting Support; Phone/Voicemail; Residential/Housing; Showers; Transit Vouchers; Trauma Recovery. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
































St. Anthony Foundation  Father Alfred Center
The St. Anthony Foundation’s Father Alfred Center provides the Bay Area’s only licensed no-fee residential recovery program to homeless men who are ready to build sober, stable futures. The program serves men from San Francisco, Marin, Alameda, Contra Costa, and San Mateo counties.  The Father Alfred Center’s year-long work-structured program empowers men with no income or resources with the tools to overcome addiction, and the support to establish productive and healthy lives. The multi-program access available through St. Anthony’s own services is rare in the field of recovery, and allows the speedy assessment and resolution of clients’ medical, legal, vocational, and educational needs, most or all of which have been affected profoundly by their cycles of poverty and addiction. www.stanthonysf.org/RecoveryProgram
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Intake
Phone: (415) 592-2831
Intake Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00am-10:00am
Intake Location: 121 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, CA  94102
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish
Client fees, if any: No fee.
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older. May not have a criminal conviciton for arson; may not be a registered sex offender; may not have a serious medical/mental health condition requiring medication.  Client must be able to pass a physical examination given by St. Anthony’s Medical Clinic as part of the intake process.
Faith Based: 12-Step based program.


Direct Services: Residential Recovery Program; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Medical Care; Anger Management; GED; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________



Outpatient Treatment
Outpatient substance abuse treatment, mental health treatment, dual diagnosis, and other services are listed here. 
Bay Area Addiction Research and Treatment  BAART Programs
BAART's/BBHS's mission is to provide people with cost effective, short-term substance abuse treatment and other health care services, including primary medical care, at its clinics or through community linkages, and to make such services available to as many people as possible who seek them. www.baartprograms.com 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Kevin Houston, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 863-3883 Fax: (415) 863-7343
Email: khouston@baartprograms.com 
Location: 1111 Market Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Market Street Hours: Weekdays except Wednesday ,6:00am to 2:00pm (Wednesday, 6:00am to 12:00pm); Saturday and Sunday, 8:00am to 12:00pm.
Notes: No referral needed.  Drop-ins welcome


Contact Person: Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 928-7800 
Location: 433 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA 94102 
Turk Street Hours: Weekdays except Wednesday, 7:00am to 3:00pm (Wednesday, 7:00am to 1:00pm); Saturday and Sunday, 8:00am to 12:00pm
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Russian. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client Fees:  Based on sliding scale.  Private insurance, Medi-Cal.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, ages 18 and older 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment (Methadone/Suboxone); Individual Counseling/Therapy. Turk Street location offers FACET program for pregnant clients on methadone.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Asian American Recovery Services   Comprehensive Outreach Program for Pacific Islanders and Asian Substance Abusers (COPPASA)
Asian American Recovery Services COPPASA's, a program of HealthRIGHT360, provides challenged and underserved community members with mental health and substance abuse pretreatment services for direct placement into San Francisco-based community programs. www.aars.org 
To Get Connected 
Contact Persons: Stephen Fields, Program Manager.
Phone: (415) 541-9404 Fax: (415) 876-6850
Email: sfields@aars.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
Location:  2166 Hayes Street, Suite 206, San Francisco, CA  94117
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: TB Clearance. Program will assist clients in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Public Health funded, no client is turned away for lack of money or insurance.
Eligible Population: All individuals who do not have a criminal conviction for arson and are not registered sex offenders.
Faith Based: No.
 
Direct Services: Transit Vouchers; Counseling and Referral to Treatment; Prevention and Pretreatment Counseling; Family Crisis Intervention; Mental Health and AOD Intervention. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Asian American Recovery Services  Lee Woodward Counseling Center
Asian American Recovery Services LWCC, a program of HealthRIGHT360, is committed to providing services that will support women, children, and their families to develop strengths, skills and self determination in an addiction-free life. We provide a safe haven where women and children can rebuild their lives through a program of recovery and learn to break the intergenerational cycle of addiction. www.aars.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Nicole Richards or Stephen Fields for program information and intakes.
Phone: (415) 776-1001 
Email: sfields@aars.org 
Location: Lee Woodward Counseling Center, 2166 Hayes Street, Suite 303, San Francisco, CA 94117
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: Proof of SF residency, TB clearance. Program will assist clients in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Public Health funded, no clients is turned away for lack of money or insurance.
Eligible Population: Mothers and children, women of color, transgender individuals, women with co-occurring disorders and physical health problems; women seeking non-residential treatment services. May not have a criminal conviction for arson; may not be a registered sex offender.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Food/Prepared Meals; Phone/Voicemail; Substance Abuse Treatment; Anger Management; Individual Counseling and Group Sessions; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Childcare (provided for participating clients while in program);  Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Asian American Recovery Services  Project ADAPT
Asian American Recovery Services Project ADAPT, a program of HealthRIGHT360, provides outpatient drug and alcohol treatment.  We adhere to a holistic approach intended to promote the development of a healthy body, mind, and spirit. The aim is to help individuals reduce substance use and develop a clean and sober lifestile. www.aars.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Nicole Richards or Stephen Fields for program information and intakes. 
Phone: (415) 541-9404 
Email: sfields@aars.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 2020 Hayes Street, San Francisco, CA 94117
Notes: No referral needed. Call or write for appointment. No drop-ins.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Tagalog, Korean.
What to Bring: TB Clearance.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: Must be a resident of San Francisco, over the age of 18, have a drug or alcohol problem.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Substance Abuse Treatment; Individual Counseling and Group Sessions; Group Counseling/Therapy. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


In the Spotlight:  Joseph Calderon
 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Joseph Caleron\Joseph Calderon.jpg 



At the age of 23, Joe started serving a life sentence. After nearly 20 years of incarceration, he began to explore ways to give back to the community upon his release. In 2013, Joe was appointed to the Reentry Council of San Francisco by the Board of Supervisors. He also served on the Equity Advisory Committee with the San Francisco Human Rights Commission. 


Today, Joe is enrolled in City College’s Post-Prison Health Worker Certificate program, and works as a community health worker with Transitions Clinic in the Bayview. He has a passion for working with the reentry population, leveraging his personal experience with incarceration to advocate the ideals of social justice and community reinvestment.






________________


Bay Area Addiction Research And Treatment  Community HealthCare
BAART Community HealthCare (BHC) is a non-profit entity established to provide medical care through a network of community clinics. BCH focuses primarily on providing low cost primary care services to indigent populations. BCH and its predecessors have been providing services for 35 years. www.baartprograms.com or www.baarthealthcare.org/index.html
To Get Connected
Contact person:  Medical Secretary
Phone: (415) 863-3883 Fax: (415) 863-7343
Location: 1111 Market Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Market Street Hours: Weekdays except Wednesday, 6:00am to 2:00pm (Wednesday, 6:00am to 12:00pm)
Notes: No referral needed.  Drop-ins welcome


Contact Person: Medical Secretary
Phone: (415) 928-7800 
Location: 433 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA 94102 
Turk Street Hours: Weekdays except Wednesday, 7:00am to 3:00pm (Wednesday, 7:00am to 1:00pm)
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Russian.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Medi-Cal, SFHP, Sliding fee scale.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, ages 18 and older.
Faith Based:  No.
________________




Direct Services: Medical Care; Mental Health Treatment; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Assessment & Application for SSI. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


HealthRIGHT 360  Outpatient Services
The mission of HealthRIGHT 360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need. We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community.    www.healthright360.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Mario Bandes, OP Director 
Phone: (415) 226-1775  x 2239  Fax: (415) 701-7913 
Email: mbandes@healthright360.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:45am to 7:00 pm 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins for orientation welcome. Orientations take occur Monday through Friday  8:45am-9:15am.






Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco residency, TB clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting these.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: Adults 18 and over.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Trauma-Informed Treatment for Women; Transitional Housing; Residential Substance Abuse Services Referrals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education; Application Assistance with Food Stamps, GA & SSI; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Representative Payee Services; CJ Referrals/Mandated; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; and Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


Horizons Unlimited of San Francisco, Inc.  Outpatient Substance Abuse Treatment Program
The purpose of the substance abuse outpatient treatment program is to provide culturally affirming and linguistically sensitive, strength-based, family-focused, and biopsychosocial intervention strategies to support and assist dual diagnosis Latino and other youth and young adults, who have demonstrated emotional and behavioral problems that impede their ability to function in their home, school, community, and mainstream society. Horizons’ primary goal is to engage, educate, and inspire youth. www.horizons-sf.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Shirley Maciel, Director
Phone: (415) 487-6702 Fax: (415) 487-6724
Main Phone:  (415) 487-6700
Email: shirley16maciel@gmail.com 
Specific Intake Days and Times: Monday-Friday, based on appointment.        
Hours: Monday – Thursday, 10:00am to 7:00pm; Fridays, 10:00am to 6:30pm
Location: 440 Potrero Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Notes: Clients can get a referral off our website.  Appointment preferred.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco residency. Program will assist entering clients in getting this. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, ages 12-25, involved in criminal justice system.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Food/Prepared Meals; Phone/Voicemail; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Culturally Appropriate Referrals to Legal Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Hyde Street Community Services, Inc.  Tenderloin Outpatient Clinic
The mission of Hyde Street Community Services, Inc., is to provide comprehensive integrated behavioral services to adult residents of San Francisco who are in need of these services to achieve and maintain the maximum quality of life and greatest degree of independence possible.  We provide behavorial health services to an adult population in San Francsico to improve the quality of life for those with chronic and severe behavioral health issues. www.hydestreetcs.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: On duty staff
Phone: (415) 673-5700 Fax: (415) 292-7140
Email: info@hydestreetcs.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm 
Location: 815 Hyde Street, Suite 100, San Francisco, CA  
Notes: Clients may drop-in to apply for services.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Vietnnamese, Chinese, Arab.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: The Clinic accepts MediCal, MediCare, Healthy San Francisco.  Clients may be charged according to the state UMDAP scale.
Eligible Population: We welcome all residents of San Francisco who do not have private insurance.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Trauma Recovery Services; Victim/Survivor Services; Assessment & Application for SSI Program. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






Instituto Familiar de la Raza
Substance abuse and related treatment services. www.ifrsf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Adriana Guzman, Intake Specialist
Phone: (415) 229-0500        Fax: (415) 647-3662
Email: info@ifrsf.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 7:00pm; Saturday, 9:00am to 2:00pm 
Drop-in Hours:  Tuesday 2pm-4pm; Wednesday-Friday 12pm-2pm
Location: 2919 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Notes: No referral needed. The first step to access services is to come during our drop-in hours (no appointment necessary). 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco residency. Program will assist clients in obtaining this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None if client has Medi-Cal/Medicare. Very low sliding scale based on income. No private insurance accepted.
Eligible Population: Individuals with mental health diagnosis. Must not be a danger to others. Must not have private medical insurance.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Substance Abuse Treatment; Counseling; Mental Health Treatment; Parenting Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Positive Directions Equals Change
Our mission is to inspire personal and social responsibility in the African American community through advocacy, education, and results-oriented service. Outpatient substance abuse treatment program certified by the State, based on 12-step recovery principles, combined with non-traditional treatment modalities that address the whole individual. Other services include life skills, re-socialization training, parenting education groups, anger management/violence prevention, relapse prevention, drug education, HIV/AIDS awareness, and harm reduction education.
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Cedric Akbar, Executive Director.
Phone: (415) 401-0199        Fax: (415) 401-0175
Email: cantgetright94124@yahoo.com 
Hours:  Monday-Friday, 10:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 1663 Newcomb Ave., San Francisco, CA 94124 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in preferred.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Call for fee schedule.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No. 


Direct Services: Anger Management; Case Management; Counseling; Life Skills; Literacy/Basic Education; Mentoring; Substance Abuse Treatment; Trauma Recovery; Victim Services; Violence Prevention. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Chinatown North Beach Mental Health Services
Chinatown North Beach Mental Health Services offers an array of outpatient mental health services to adolescents, adults, and older adults. Many clients served are immigrants or refugee survivors of war. The program operates from the basic philosophy that services need to be accessible and culturally appropriate. A harm reduction approach is offered to help persons who have both substance abuse and mental health issues. Goals are to help people in their recovery from psychiatric illness, and co-occurring disorders when present, building on the strengths of the individual and family and supporting persons to have productive lives in the community.  
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: On-Duty Clinician or OD
Phone: (415) 352-2000 Fax: (415) 352-2050
Clinic Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm; Drop-in hours Monday – Friday 9:00am to 11:00am; Wednesday and Friday 1:00pm to 3:00pm
Location: 729 Filbert Street, San Francisco, CA 94133
Notes: No referral needed. Okay to drop-in.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Mandarin, Vietnamese, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
What to Bring: Medi-Cal card, Medicare card, Healthy San Francisco card or other insurance information, if applicable.
Client fees: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: San Francisco resident
Faith Based: No.
 
Direct Services: Assessment; Individual Therapy/Counseling; Clinical Case Management; Medication Services; Urgent Care; Crisis Outreach; Family Intervention; Acupuncture; Group Services; Adult Socialization Program; Mental Health Services. 


________________


San Francisco Department of Public Health  Central City Older Adult Clinic
Central City Older Adult Clinic provides mental health services to clients 60 years of age or older who reside in the Civic Center, South of Market, and the Tenderloin areas of the City. Services include medication management, crisis intervention, dual diagnosis treatment, consultation, and case management services. 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Officer of the Day
Phone: (415) 558-5900 Fax: (415) 558-5959
Clinic Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm
Location: 90 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees: City and County billing based on set fees – Medi-Care/Medi-Cal share of cost.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, 60 years of age and older, who live the South of Market or Tenderloin areas of San Francisco, or are homeless.
Faith Based: No.
 
Direct Services: Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment for Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis; Medical Care; Intensive Case Management; Individual and Group Counseling/Therapy (time-limited); Anger Management; Outreach; Assistance with Assessment & Application for SSI.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Mission Mental Health 
Mission Mental Health is an outpatient mental health clinic that provides services to adults age 18 and older.  
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Nora Zapata Krey, LCSW 
Phone: (415) 401-2700 Fax: (415) 401-2741
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 11:00am.  Intakes are on a first come basis.
Location:  2712 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94110
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in during intake hours.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities area accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Program accepts Medi-Cal, Medi-Care, Healthy San Francisco and indigent clients. In some situations, clients may have a co-payment based on income or requirement of their coverage provider.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, 18 and older. Program does not serve convicted sex offenders whose offense involved a child or minor.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Medication; Case Management; Harm Reduction Groups; Seeking Safety Groups; Dialectical Behavior Therapy Groups.
________________


San Francisco Department of Public Health  South of Market Mental Health Services
The Department of Public Health focuses on disease prevention and health promotion of communities throughout San Francisco. We work to achieve the vision of healthy people in healthy communities by performing the following functions: Employ a systematic approach to identify the health conditions and needs of communities; Determine priorities, and develop policies and programs that address the health conditions and needs of communities; Assure that quality health resources and services are available to all San Francisco communities.  
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Officer of the Day 
Phone: (415) 836-1700 Fax: (415) 836-1737
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm. Intake on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, 8:30am to 10:30am. Wednesday, 1:00pm to 2:30pm. 
Location:  South of Market Mental Health Services, 760 Harrison Street, San Francisco, CA 94107
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in during intake hours.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Tagalog, Spanish, Cantonese. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities area accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Program accepts Medi-Cal, Medi-Care, Healthy San Francisco and indigent clients. In some situations, clients may have a co-payment based on income or requirement of their coverage provider.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, 18 and older. Program does not serve convicted sex offenders whose offense involved a child or minor.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment;  Medical Care; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Assessment & Application for SSI. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


San Francisco Department of Public Health  Southeast Mission Geriatric Services
The goal of Southeast Mission Geriatric Services is to identify and serve individuals 60 years and older who, without mental health intervention and treatment, are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization.


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Front Desk 
Phone: (415) 337-2400 Fax: (415) 337-2415
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm. 
Location:  3905 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94112
Notes: No referral needed. Call in advance for appointment.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities area accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Program accepts Medi-Cal, Medi-Care, Healthy San Francisco and indigent clients. In some situations, clients may have a co-payment based on income or requirement of their coverage provider.
Eligible Population: Individuals over the age of 60 who have several mental disorders and those who are dually diagnosed who reside primarily but not exclusively in the Southeast area of San Francisco.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment;  Case Management; In-Home and Clinic Based Intervention and Therapy. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
San Francisco Department of Public Health  Sunset Mental Health Clinic
Sunset Mental Health Clinic welcomes individuals and families who request assistance with mental health, substance abuse, and co-occurring disorders and to ensure the provision of integrated, quality, linguistically-appropriate, culturally competent services and support.


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Jane Ma, LCSW or Officer of the Day 
Phone: (415) 753-7400 Fax: (415) 753-0164
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm. Drop-in hours 9:00am to 11:00am.
Location:  1990 41st Ave., San Francisco, CA 94116
Notes: Best to call in for an appointment to avoid waiting.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Russian and Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
What to Bring: Health insurance information and list of current medications.
Client fees, if any: Program accepts Medi-Cal, Medi-Care, Healthy San Francisco and Healthy Worker. Sliding scale for uninsured clients. 
Eligible Population: Residents of San Francisco who meet medical necessity.
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: Assessment; Crisis Intervention; Case Management; Individual Therapy; Medication Services; Group Therapy; Wellness and Recovery Program.


San Francisco Department of Public Health  Transitional Youth Services
Provide direct clinical services, including individual/group/family therapy, medication monitoring and case management to mentally ill youth. TAY strives to empower and educate youth to increase their level of independence and functioning.  


To Get Connected
Contact Persons:  Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 642-4522 Fax: (415) 695-6961
Notes: No drop-ins. Please call for referral information.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: Men, women, transgender people, 16-25 years old, including individuals involved in the criminal justice system.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


Tom Waddell Clinic  OBOT
Substance abuse treatment under the harm reduction model.
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Margaret Farny RN, OBOT Program Coordinator
Phone: (415) 647-6327 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 4:30pm
Location: OBOT Program, Tom Waddell urban Health Clinic, 230 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, CA  94102
Notes: Clients are referred from Ward 93, PCP, OBIC, UC, other CHC Sites. Drop-ins allowed, but appointments are preferred. Please call or write for appointment.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of SF Residency. Program will assist entering clients in getting this. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Tom Waddell accepts MediCare, MediCal, HSF (sliding scale)
Eligible Population: All individuals with an opiate dependence.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Medical Care; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


UCSF  Citywide Case Management Forensic Program
The program is one of three intensive case management programs co-located at 982 Mission Street, under the umbrella of the UCSF Department of Psychiatry's Community Services Division.  Mission Statement: "The Citywide Focus Center is a UCSF site in which the Citywide Focus programs provide compassionate, respectful, culturally and clinically competent, and comprehensive psychiatric services to individuals with severe and persistent mental illnesses and to their families and support networks."


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Marta Gilbert, Clinical Supervisor
Phone: (415) 597-8071 Fax: (415) 597-8004
Email: marta.gilbert@ucsf.edu 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 4:45pm; Saturday, 10:00am to 1:00pm
Location: 982 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: Clients must have a referral from the San Francisco Behavioral Health Court, Jail Reentry Services, or Community Behavioral Health Services. Clients who wish to self-refer should first contact SF Mental Health Access at (415) 255-3737.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Russian. Onsite translation in Chinese dialects, Vietnamese, and Tagalog.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees: Client fees are determined by Community Behavioral Health Services. Services are billed through Medi-Cal if available. No one is refused services due to lack of income or benefits.
Eligible Population: Must meet Community Behavioral Health Services’s medical necessity for a serious mental illness. For employment services only, must meet Department of Rehabilitation’s criteria for mental illness.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Trauma Recovery Services; Assistance with Assessment & Application for General Assistance and SSI; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


UCSF  Citywide Case Management Forensic NoVA Therapy Program
The purpose of this program is to provide culturally competent mental health services in support of the Sheriff’s Department NoVA Program’s goals of aiding offenders’ successful reentry into the community and reducing recidivism, treating all individuals with dignity, compassion and respect. 


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Yasi Shirazi, MFT, Clinical Supervisor
Phone: (415) 597-8027 Fax: (415) 597-8004
Email: yasaman.shirazi@ucsf.edu 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 4:45pm; Saturday, 10:00am to 1:00pm
Location: 982 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: Clients must all be enrolled in the San Francisco Sheriff's Department NoVA program and be referred by his or her community-based case manager. No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees: There are no client fees for NoVA therapy services.
Eligible Population: Individuals who are enrolled in the SF Sheriff Department’s NoVA program.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Group and Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Trauma Recovery Services; Assistance with Assessment & Application for SSI; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Couples/Family Counseling. Referrals to other resources available as needed
________________



Supportive Services      
Arab Cultural and Community Center
Assist immigrant families in adjusting/adapting to hardships in American societies, and aim to provide any services needed through referrals. www.arabculturalcenter.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 664-2200 Fax: (415) 664-2280
Email: info@arabculturalcenter.org
Hours: Monday - Friday, 10:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 2 Plaza Street, San Francisco, CA 94116
Notes: No referral needed. By appointment only. No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID; Proof of San Francisco residency.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None. 
Eligible Population: All individuals, and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Services: Referrals to range of community resources and social services.
Bay Area Women’s & Children’s Center
BAWCC offers a variety of direct services that address immediate needs and assists with achieving long-term stability. BAWCC's advocacy, planning and policy work on issues of low-income children and families has had a positive impact on the lives of thousands since we opened in 1981. BAWCC's long-term projects have resulted in the creation of playgrounds, a recreation center, school, and family center. www.bawcc.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Diane Van Stralen, Nancy Ong or Midge Wilson 
Phone: (415) 474-2400 Fax: (415)474-5525
Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 8:30am to 12:30pm (drop-in)
Location: 318 Leavenworth Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome. Appointments can be made.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Limited Spanish, and Vietnamese.
What to Bring: Some form of I.D. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Women, transgender individuals, including those pregnant or with children.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Clothing; Dental Care (in partnership with UCSF); Food Pantry; Literacy/Basic Education; Scholarship Fund for Tenderloin College Age Students.   Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


Black Coalition on AIDS    
The Black Coalition on AIDS (BCA) focuses on reducing health disparities in the Black community, most notably, the spread of HIV/AIDS. BCA strives to achieve this focus by providing health and wellness services including, but not limited to, transitional housing, health education, advocacy, health case management, and other health-promoting activities. www.bcoa.org


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Francis Broome, Coordinator of Prevention and Education
Phone: (415) 615-9945, ext. 114
Email: fbroome@bcoa.org or bcoa@bcoa.org
Location: 601 Cesar Chavez Street, San Francisco, CA 94124
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Eligible Population: African Americans, HIV + individuals and those at risk for HIV and other health disparities
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Health Case Management; Counseling; Community Outreach; Health Education Workshops; Drop-In and Support Groups; Health Enhancement and Stress Reduction Classes; Complementary Alternative medicine; Wellness Services; Dinner-and-a-Movie Night; Women’s HIV Prevention Education; Referrals for health screening, treatment and primary care.
________________


Central City Hospitality House   
Hospitality House is a community center for San Francisco’s Tenderloin neighborhood, providing opportunities for personal growth and self-determination to homeless people and neighborhood residents. The agency’s mission is to build community strength by advocating policies and rendering services that foster self-sufficiency and cultural enrichment. We encourage self-help, mutual respect, and increased self-esteem. The goal of these efforts is to make the heart of San Francisco a better place for us all. Facilities include the Tenderloin Self-Help Center (TSHC), the Sixth Street Self-Help Center, a shelter, the Community Arts Program (CAP) , the Employment Program (EP), and the Community Building Program (CBP).  
To Get Connected
Office Phone: (415) 749-2100 
Office Fax: (415) 749-2136
TSHC: (415) 749-2143
Sixth Street: (415) 369-3040
Shelter: (415) 749-2103
CAP: (415) 749-2133
Employment Program: (415) 749-2175
CBP:  (415) 749-2102
Email: info@hospitalityhouse.org 
Hours: 
TSHC: Mon-Fri, 7:00am to 7:00pm
Sixth Street: Mon-Fri: 9am-5pm
Shelter: Mon-Fri, 4:00pm to 8:00am; 24-hours Weekends & Holidays
CAP: M/W/F: 1-6pm; Tue/Thurs: 10am-3pm
CBP:  Mon-Fri 9:00 -5:00pm 
Location: 
Main Office, TSHC & Community Building Program: 290 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA 94102 
Sixth Street Self-Help Ctr: 169 & 181 Sixth St., San Francisco, CA 94103
Shelter: 146 Leavenworth St., San Francisco, CA 94102 
Community Arts Program: 1007 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94102
Employment Program: 146 Leavenworth, San Francisco, CA  94102
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese.
Accessibility: All programs wheelchair accessible.  Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Rental Move-in Assistance; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Post-Incarceration Support; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Couples/Family Counseling; Meals; Shower Facilities. Referrals to other resources available as needed.

Center for Restorative Justice Works Get On The Bus
The Center for Restorative Justice Works (CRJW) unites children, families, and communities separated by crime and the criminal justice system. CRJW calls the community to set aside pre-judgments about women and men in prison in order to work together to accompany families torn apart by the crime and the criminal justice system, create awareness about the negative impacts of incarceration on children and families, and advocate for programs and policies that restore relationships.  CJRW re-weaves the web of relationships that have been torn apart by crime and the policies of the criminal justice system.
Get on the Bus is a program of The CRJW. Get On The Bus brings children and their guardians/caregivers from throughout the state of California to visit their mothers and fathers in prison. An annual event, Get On The Bus offers free transportation for the children and their caregivers to the prison, provides travel bags for the children, comfort care bags for the caregivers, a photo of each child with his or her parent, and meals for the day (breakfast, snacks on the bus, lunch at the prison, and dinner on the way home) — all at no cost to the children’s family. On the bus trip home, following a four-hour visit, each child receives a teddy bear with a letter from their parent and post-event counseling.  www.crjw.us     www.getonthebus.us


To Get Connected
Contact Persons:
Main Office:  Southern California Office
Phone: (818) 980-7714 Fax: (818) 980-7702
Email: info@getonthebus.us
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm Intake Tuesday – Friday.
Location: 6400 Laurel Canyon Blvd. Ste 304
North Hollywood, CA  91606
Notes: No referral needed.  Applications are received from the incarcerated parent at select institutions.  Call for more information.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  English, Spanish.
Accessibility: ADA compliant.
Eligible Population: Children (Infant to 18 years) of incarcerated mothers & fathers (including caregivers).
Faith Based: Inter-Faith.


Direct Services: Each year around Mother’s Day and Father’s Day, hundreds of children and their caregivers board buses and travel from cities all over the State of California to be united with their parents. 


________________


Center for Young Womens Development  Sisters Rising & GDAP  
For 20 years, the Center for Young Women’s Development (CYWD) has empowered and inspired thousands of young women experiencing incarceration or life on the streets to create positive personal and social change.  CYWD offers a paid internship program for young women exiting the juvenile justice system or underground street economy.  Our mission is to empower and inspire young women who have been involved with the juvenile justice system and/or the underground street economy to create positive change in their lives and communities. www.cywd.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Program Director
Phone: (415) 703-8800 Fax: (415) 703-8818
Email: info@cywd.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm Intake Monday – Friday.
Location: 832 Folsom Street, Suite #700, San Francisco, CA 94107
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: Women and girls ages 12-24, pregnant women, women with children who are involved in the criminal/juvenile justice system.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Employment Program; Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Phone/Voicemail; Community Education & Mediation; Post-Incarceration Support; Employment Training. Referrals to other resources available as needed. 




Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice  NoVA Services
The Center on Juvenile Justice’s NoVA mission is to provide high-quality professional pre-release planning and intensive case management to individuals who are returning to the community from San Francisco’s jails. www.cjcj.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Gerald Miller, Director of Community-Based Services
Phone: (415) 621-5661
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 40 Boardman Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: All referrals are made through San Francisco Pre-Trial Diversion. No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: All individuals incarcerated in or recently released from San Francisco County Jail and referred by Pre-Trial Diversion.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License & ID; Clothing; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Intensive Case Management; Individual and Group Therapy/Counseling; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Employment Training.














In the Spotlight:  Gerald Miller


 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Gerald Miller\Gerald Miller.jpg 
________________



Years of drug addiction led to multiple terms in state prison for Gerald Miller.  In 1998, Gerald received his BA from Golden Gate University and spent 15 years with the internationally renowned Delancey Street Foundation, where he directed the Institute for Social Renewal.  
Currently, Gerald is the Director of Adult Community Corrections Services with the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice.  In addition to his international experience presenting on community corrections, Mr. Miller serves on the advisory boards of a number of community and civic organizations, including two terms with the Reentry Council of San Francisco.


In the Spotlight:  Steve Adami
 


Steve Adami currently works in the Reentry Division of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department.  He is a graduate of the Delancey Street Foundation in San Francisco and spent numerous years involved in the criminal justice system.   




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Steve Adami\Steve Adami Pic.jpg 

Since being released from prison in 2010, he earned a Master’s Degree in Public Administration (Public Policy/Criminal Justice) from San Francisco State University; was inducted into Pi Alpha Alpha, a National Honor Society for Public Affairs and Administration; and received the San Francisco State University’s Barbara Jordan Award for Academic Excellence.  Steve is also a member of the Policy and Operational Practice Subcommittee for the Reentry Council of San Francisco. 
   
                                                                                
________________
Centerforce  Positive Connections Program/Project Start
Centerforce’s Positive Connections Program provides intensive transitional case management services for HIV+ individuals who are leaving prison and returning to either San Francisco or Alameda County. 


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Jessica McGhie-Osorio Phone: (415) 456-9980 ext 204 
Email: jmcghie@centerforce.org
Specific Intake Days and Times: 
Intakes are completed on an ongoing basis, either during incarceration in prison or shortly after release, in the community.
Service Areas: Bay Area
Administrative Office Mailing Address: PO Box 415, San Quentin, CA 94964
Notes:  For other Centerforce programs call 415-456-9980.
 
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. Translation services will be arranged when possible.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: HIV+ individuals   
currently incarcerated in – or recently    
released from – state prison, returning to
Bay Area Counties.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Pre- and Post-Release Transitional Case Management to link HIV+ clients with housing, food, clothing, transportation, benefits assistance, case management and primary HIV care in the community.
In the Spotlight:  John Wilson


 
 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\John Wilson\John Wilson.jpg 



John Wilson was convicted and sentenced to 25 years to life in 1998 under California’s Three Strike Law. During his incarceration, he became an agent of change, first by obtaining an Associate of Arts degree from Patten College at San Quentin State Prison. 
After completing his Associate of Arts degree, he became a facilitator for the Victims Offender's Education Group, No More Tears (violence prevention group), and Reaching and Changing Adolescent Lives. Currently, John is employed by Leaders in Community Alternatives. He will be attending San Francisco State in the spring semester 2015.


________________




________________


________________


Community Assessment and Services Center (CASC)  A Partnership of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department (APD) and Leaders in Community Alternatives (LCA)
The CASC is a one-stop community corrections reentry center that bridges APD probation supervision services with comprehensive case management, barrier removal, and income benefits acquisition assistance. The CASC co-locates services that build self-sufficiency, including a charter high school, vocational and employment readiness training, mental health, and substance abuse prevention services, batterers’ intervention programs, cognitive behavioral interventions, and meeting space for community partners.   The goals of the CASC are to reduce recidivism, build self-sufficiency skills, and increase public safety.   APD provides on-site probation supervision services. Leaders in Community Alternatives is the CASC’s primary services provider and coordinates all CASC services.  Other key partners include Five Keys Charter School, Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice, America Works, Community Works West, Senior Ex Offender Program, OTTP, Transitions Clinic, HealthRIGHT360, Tenderloin Housing Clinic, RSN, the Department of Public Health, Human Services Agency and Department of Child Support Services.


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake
Phone:  415-489-7300
CASC Hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 8am-8pm; Wednesday 8am-5pm
Location:  564 6th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes: For referrals, please contact your DPO at 415-553-1706.  For general CASC services information, please contact CASC Program Director Jeff Essex at (415) 489-7301 or by email at jessex@lcaservices.com or the Asst. Program Director Scott Marshall at 415-489-7302 or by email at smarshall@lcaservices.com
 
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. Language access for limited English proficient (LEP) individuals is available.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Clients of the San Francisco Adult Probation Department.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Case Management; Education (literacy services, high school and GED instruction); Employment Readiness; Job Placement; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Vocational Training; Parenting; Anger Management; Behavioral Health Assessments and Treatment; Cognitive Behavioral Services. Referrals to other services as appropriate.























Community Works West  Young Men’s Reentry Program/Voices on the Rise
The Young Men’s Reentry Program is a full-service reentry program for 18-25 year old, previously incarcerated men.  Voices on the Rise is a restorative justice theater ensemble for formerly incarcerated young men ages 18-25 years old.  The program starts in late Fall/early Winter and meets twice a week at the San Franscisco Sheriff’s Department (SFSD) Community Programs and culminates in several public performances in the Spring.  Voices on the Rise is a paid job opportunity.   www.communityworkswest.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Teeoni Newsom
Phone:  (415) 575-6409
Email:  tnewsom@communityworkswest.org
Location:  San Francisco Sheriff’s Department Community Programs, 70 Oak Grove, San Francisco, CA  94103
Hours:  Monday-Friday 8:30am-4:30pm
 
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population: Men ages 18-25.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Intensive Case Management; Individual Service Plans that adress Employment Goals, Housing, Education, Counseling, and Substance Abuse; Job Development; Life Skills; Thinking for a Change and Manalive Classes; Restorative Justice Theater Program for Young Men.


Community Works West  Women Rising/Rising Voices
Women Rising/Rising Voices provides formerly incarcerated young women with the tools/resources to lead healthy and productive lives, as well as reducing their rates of re-arrest, by providing a full continuum of services, combining the principles of restorative justice and youth development through a paid theater internship and case management.  Rising Voices is a restorative justice theater ensemble for formerly incarcerated young women ages 18-25.  Rising Voices is a paid job opportunity.    www.communityworkswest.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Chloe Turner
Phone:  (415)-734-3150
Email:  cturner@communityworkswest.org
Location:  San Francisco Sheriff’s Department Women’s Resource Center, 930 Bryant Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Hours:  Monday-Friday 8:00am-4:00pm
 
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population: Open to all formerly incarcerated women ages 18-25 years old.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Intensive Case Management; Individual Service Plans that adress Employment Goals, Housing, Education, Counseling, and Substance Abuse; Job Development; Life Skills; Thinking for a Change and Manalive Classes; Restorative Justice Theater Program for Young Women.










Compass Family Services  Compass Connecting Point
Compass Connecting Point (CCP) is a unique program that gives any San Francisco family experiencing a housing crisis quick access to the services that they need most, including eviction prevention, emergency shelter, health care, child care, and eductional programs.  CCP manages the shelter waiting list for the City-funded long-term family shelters.  Our goals are to place families into shelter and provide supportive services during that wait, including emergency food, diapers, transportation assistance, and intensive supoort with housing search.  Additionally CCP provides a one-time interest free loan for move-in funds and eviction prevention.  
www.compass-sf.org/programs/connecting-point


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Any hotline worker or Crisis Intervention Counselor
Phone: (855) 234-2667
Fax:  (415) 442-5138
Specific Intake Days/Times:  Monday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm; Tuesday 9am-12pm and 3pm-5pm; Wednesday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm; Thursday 9am-12pm and 2pm-5pm; and Friday 9am-12pm and 1pm-5pm
Note:  No referral required.  All clients are required to do a 15 minute phone intake over the hotline at (855) 234-2667.  Drop-in services are available Monday 9am-12pm, Wednesday 10:30am-12pm, Friday 9am-12pm..  Families are typically on the waitlist for 6 to 8 months during which we provide supportive services.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, German.  We are able to arrange ASL interpreters.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population: All families, pregnant women, women with children.  Eligible families have at least one legal adult plus either a minor child in their custody or a pregnancy.  There is no maximum family size.  For shelter wait list, families must be homeless and receiving public benefits in SF or willing to transfer to SF.  For rental assistance, families must be SF residents.  For move in funds, they must be homeless in SF and have a unit they have been accepted into.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Rental Move-in Assistance; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License and Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Transit Vouchers; Mental Health Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Assistance Applying for Calfresh/Food stamps.
________________
Deaf Community Counseling Services (DCCS)
DCCS, formally known as the UCSF Center on Deafness,a program of Family Service Agency of San Francisco/Felton Institute, provides outpatient mental health and substance abuse services for individuals who are Deaf, Deaf-Blind, Hard of Hearing and Late Deafened.  
www.felton.org/social-services/adult/dccs/


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 474-7310; Video Phone(415) 255-5854 Fax:  (415) 447-9701
Email:  dccs@felton.org
Hours: Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm
Location: 1500 Franklin Street, San Francisco, CA  94109 
Notes: Please call for information.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, American Sign Language.
What to Bring: Proof of SF residency.
Eligible Population: Services are for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, and deaf/blind.  Adults, seniors, and children.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Mental Health & Substance Abuse Assessment and Therapy; Psychiatric & Medication Services; Co-Occurring/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health and Wellness Education; Group and Individual Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Basic/Remedial Education; Support with Assessment and Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance and SSI; Money Management and Personal Finance Education; Couples Counseling/Therapy; Parenting Support/Education; Counseling/Therapy for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
Dress For Success San Francisco
The mission of Dress for Success is to promote the economic independence of disadvantaged women by providing professional attire, a network of support and the career development tools to help women thrive in work and in life.  www.dressforsuccess.org/sanfrancisco


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Gia Barsi, Program Manager
Phone: (415) 362-0034 Fax: 415-362-0035
Email: sanfrancisco@dressforsuccess.org 
Hours: Monday – Friday 9am -5pm
 Location: 500 Sutter Street # 218, San Francisco, CA  94102
Notes: Written Referral required for a Suiting Appointment. No walk-in’s, by appointment only. Suiting appointments are Tuesday – Thursday, 11am – 3pm. No children or visitors are allowed to accompany you to your appointment.   All items are based on inventory.  
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: Dress for Success San Francisco does not require ID at check-in. Check in at security desk required. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None. 
Eligible Population: Female only; 16 years and older; must be actively job searching, attending a job fair/networking event, or enrolled in a job training/internship program. Clients are eligible to be seen twice a year for clothing services (once for an initial interview outfit; again when you have secured part-time/full-time employment). 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Professional and Working Wardrobe Attire; Job Mentorship Program; Professional Women’s Group Networking Program; 1:1 Career Mentoring.
San Francisco Department of Aging and Adult Services  Aging and Disability Resource Center 
Aging and Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs) offer the general public a single source for connecting to free information and assistance on issues affecting older people and people with disabilities, regardless of their income. These resource centers are welcoming and convenient locations for you and your family to get objective and accurate information, advice, and have access to a wide variety of services.  With hubs throughout San Francisco, the ADRC Information and Assistance Specialists provide a wide range of services in multiple languages. www.sfdaas.org


To Get Connected
Office Phone:  Intake
(415) 355-6700 
Location:  1650 Mission St. San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes:  For more info visit one or our ADRC’s or contact ADRC Supervisor at 415-750-4111.


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English and other languages.  Please call for information.
Accessibility:  All stations are accessible
Eligible Population:  Seniors (60+) and Young Adults with Disabilities (18-59).
Faith Based:  No.
Location and Hours:
Richmond Senior Center:  Golden Gate Senior Services, 6221 Geary Boulevard, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA  94121, (415)-404-2938 or (415)-752-6444, Monday-Friday 9am-3pm (by appointment 8:30am-9am, 3pm-3:30pm)


Aquatic Park Senior Center:  Northern California Presbyterian Homes and Services, 890 Beach Street, San Francisco, CA  94109, Spanish (415)-202-2982 or Chinese (415)-202-2983, Monday-Friday 9am-12:30pm, 1pm-3pm (by appointment until 4pm)


Toolworks—Main Office:  25 Kearney Street, Suite 400, San Francisco, CA  94108,(415)-733-0990 x613, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 8:30am-4:30pm (Closed Wednesday)


Self Help for the Elderly—Main Office:  601 Jackson Street, San Francisco, CA  94108U, (415)-677-7585, Monday, Wednesday, Friday 8:30am-12:30pm , 1:15pm-5:15pm; Tuesday, Thursday 8:30am-12:30pm


Geen Mun Activity Center:  Self Help for the Elderly,  777 Stockton Street, San Francisco, CA  94108,
(415)-438-9804, Monday, Wednesday, Friday 8:30am-12:30pm , 1:15pm-5:15pm; Tuesday, Thursday 1:15pm-5:15pm


South Sunset Activity Center:  Self Help for the Elderly, 2601 40th Avenue, San Francisco, CA  94116,
(415)-566-2845, Monday-Thursday 8:30am-3:00pm , Friday 9am-3pm


Bayview Senior Connections:  Bayview Hunters Point Multipurpose Senior Services, 5600-A 3rd Street, San Francisco, CA  94124,(415)-647-5353, Monday-Friday 10am-5pm 8:30am-3:00pm 


Downtown San Francisco Senior Center:  Northern California Presbyterian Homes and Services, 481 O’Farrell Street, San Francisco, CA  94102, Spanish (415)-202-2982 Chinese (415) 202-2983
Monday-Friday 9am-12:30pm, 1:00pm-3:30pm (by appointment until 4pm)



OMI Senior Center:  Catholic Charities, 65 Beverly Street, San Francisco, CA  94132, (415)-334-5550 
        Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm (by appointment 2:30pm-4pm)
 
        Openhouse—Main Office:  Openhouse (LGBT Hub), 1800 Market Street, 4th Floor, San Francisco, CA          94102, (415)-347-8509, Monday-Friday 9am-5:30pm (by appointment 9am-11:30am, drop-ins         1pm-4:30pm)


        30th Street Senior Center:  225 30th Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA  94131, (415)-550-2221
        Monday-Friday 8:30am-3pm
 
        Western Addition Senior Center:  Bayview Hunters Point Multipurpose Senior Services, 1390 ½ Turk         Street, San Francisco, CA  94115, (415)-921-7805, Monday-Friday 10am-5pm


        Direct Services: The ADRC’s can support individuals with information, referral, and/or assistance in         the following areas:  Caregiver Assistance and Support; Case Management Services; Employment         and Training Opportunities; Financial Assistance and Planning; Food and Nutrition; Health and         Wellness; Housing and Shelter; In-home Care; Legal Assistance; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and         Transgender (LGBT) Programs and Services, Medical and Dental Care; Mental Health and         Counseling Services; Paperwork and Application Assistance; Prescription Drug Coverage; Senior         Centers, Translation Services; Transportation.


________________


Episcopal Community Services  SF START
SF-START is designed to provide coordinated and integrated services to support recovery in partnership with Episcopal Community Services’ Skills Center, permanent housing placement support, and benefits advocacy in San Francisco’s single adult homeless shelters. 
www.ecs-sf.org


To Get Connected
Person to Contact: Contact an SF-START case manager working inside one of the shelters listed below.
Hours: Monday through Saturday, 9:00am to 7:30pm
Location: SF-START operates inside each of the three largest adult homeless shelters: Next Door, MSC-South, and Sanctuary.
Notes: No referral needed. SF-START does not provide shelter beds; it serves people who are already inside the emergency shelter system.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. Accessibility: Sanctuary is not fully wheelchair accessible. Other shelters have elevators.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Adults. 
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Case Management for Individuals with Mental Health and Substance Abuse Disorders; Group Counseling and Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.


Episcopal Community Services  Adult Education Center
The Adult Education Center specializes in providing a stable, caring and individualized learning environment for students who are coping with the inter-related challenges of homelessness, illiteracy, learning disabilities, substance abuse, and mental health issues. While created particularly for homeless adults and those formerly homeless adults living in supportive housing, the Adult Education Center is open to all low-income individuals in San Francisco who would like to further develop their academic skills or need job counseling, training, and placement.   
www.ecs-sf.org/programs/skills.html
To Get Connected
Person to Contact: Staff
Phone: (415) 487-3300 ext. 1101 
School Hours: Monday -Thursday, 9am to 3pm  Friday, 9am-12pm.
Location: 165 8th Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome. Orientations are drop in every Monday-Thursday at 1:00pm
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Adults, age 18 and older. 
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Access to Internet; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Health and Wellness Education; Basic/Remedial Education; GED Preparation; High School Diploma; Reading and Literacy Assistance; Job Readiness and Life Skills; Money Management and Personal Finance Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
Glide Foundation  Glide Daily Free Meals Program
The goal of this program is to provide three nutritious meals a day, 364 days a year, to anyone in need. www.glide.org
To Get Connected
Person to Contact: Bruce McKinney, Manager
Phone: (415) 674-6043 Fax: (415) 921-6951
Hours: 
Monday – Friday
Breakfast: 8:00am to 9:00am
Lunch: 12:00pm to 1:30pm
Dinner: 4:00pm to 5:30pm 
Saturday & Sunday
Breakfast:  8am-9am
Lunch:  12:00pm-1:30pm
Bagged dinner provided after lunch 
Location: 330 Ellis Street, San Francisco, CA  94102
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No.
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.


Direct Services: Prepared Meals. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




Glide Foundation  Men In Progress
Men In Progress is a Violence Intervention Program dedicated to working with all men in straightforward and practical ways on issues that affect their lives. The goal is to support men to gain understanding and strength in their relationships with themselves, partners, family, friends, and community. www.glide.org
To Get Connected
Person to Contact: Group Facilitator
Phone: (415) 674-6195  Fax: (415) 771-8420
Hours: Tuesday and Thursdays 5pm-8pm
Location: 330 Ellis Street, San Francisco, CA  94102 (go to Freedom Hall)
Notes: To join the group you must show up on a Tuesday at 4:30pm.  No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Anger Management; Community Education and Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Post-Incarceration Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Glide Foundation  Walk-In Center
To provide clients with immediate assistance to prevent their situations from escalating, and to engage them in more extended, intensive services when they are ready. www.glide.org
To Get Connected
Person to Contact: Angela Coleman
Phone: (415) 400-2641 or (415) 674-6033 
Fax: (415) 771-8420
Hours: Monday – Thursday, 8:00am to 1:00pm, 2:00pm to 4:30pm; Friday, 8:30am to 12:45pm
Emergency Shelter Bed Reservations: 365 days/year, 7:00am to 10:30am and 4:00pm to 9:00pm
Location: 330 Ellis Street, Room 101, San Francisco, CA  94102 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Rental Move-in Assistance.  The Walk-In Center assists clients in obtaining rental assistance through Season of Sharing, HPRP, Catholic Charities, FEPCO, HOME, etc.  Staff screen for eligibility, and assist clients with the full application process.  Emergency Shelter Bed Reservations; Permanent Housing; Transitional Housing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Phone/Voicemail Access; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Intensive Case Management. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Glide Foundation  Women's Center
To introduce Afro-centric and socio/historical/political contexts for a culturally sensitive and holistic approach to healing and transformation for African American women impacted by domestic violence. www.glide.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Case Manager
Phone: (415) 674-6026
Hours: Tuesday, 9:00am to 10:30am; Wednesday, 9:00am to 10:30am, 3:00pm to 4:30pm; Thursday and Friday, 9:00am to 10:30am
Location: 330 Ellis Street, San Francisco, CA  94102 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Client fees, if any: None.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter Bed Reservations; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Health and Wellness Education; Group Counseling; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Victim/Survivor Services; Post-Incarceration Support. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


Homeless Prenatal Program   
In partnership with our families, we work to break the cycle of childhood poverty. By seizing the motivational opportunity created by pregnancy and parenthood, HPP joins with families to help them recognize their strengths and trust in their capacity to transform their lives. www.homelessprenatal.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 546-6756 Fax: (415) 546-6778 
Hours: Monday – Thursday, 9:00am to 5:00pm; Friday, 9am-4pm. Closed from 12-1pm daily. Intake hours vary by day.
Location: 2500 18th Street, San Francisco, CA  94110 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome for intake.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Spanish, English, French, Tagalog, Cantonese, Mandarin.
What to Bring: Proof of residency is required for housing deposits. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fee to clients.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, Transgender people with a child under 18 yrs old, Pregnant women.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Hotel Vouchers for Pregnant Women in the Last Trimester and DV Clients when no Shelter Beds are Available; Rental & Move-in Assistance; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Health & Wellness Education; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; English as a Second Language; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, SSI; Credit Repair; Money Management/Personal Financial Education/Personal Income Tax Preparation; Housing Advocacy (refer out for eviction defense); Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Jireh Technologies, Inc. 
As a social enterprise venture, Jireh Technologies, Inc. (Jireh Tech) serves as a public benefit 501(c)3 organization that was incorporated in February 2004. As social entrepreneurs, the Jireh Tech management team is engaged in creating a sustainable model of mitigating the digital divide and utilizing information and communications technology as a tool for community development. www.jirehtech.com
To Get Connected
Contact Person: IT Director
Phone: (925) 338-1832
Email:  mail@jirehtech.com 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 10:00am-6:00pm.
Location: 2070 North Broadway Stuite 4082, Walnut Creek, CA 94596
Notes: No referral needed. Appointments are preferred but drop-ins are accepted.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, some Spanish. 
What to Bring: State-issued ID and TB clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees: No fee to clients.
Eligible Population: Everyone welcome.
Faith Based: No, but the organization is housed within a faith-based Christian facility.


Direct Services: 8-12 week digital literacy course which teaches and assesses basic computing concepts and skills so that people can use computer technology in everyday life. Program also provides: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Job Readiness/Life Skills. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


________________


________________


Lavender Youth Recreation & Information Center (LYRIC)    
LYRIC is an organization for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning youth, ages 24 and younger. LYRIC’s mission is to build community and inspire positive social change through education enhancement, career training, health promotion and leadership development with LGBTQQ youth, their families, and allies of all races, classes, genders and abilities. LYRIC works to meet youth where they are and support them in getting what they need. www.lyric.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Youth Advocates
Phone: (415) 703-6150  
Fax: (415) 703-6153
Email:  lyricinfo@lyric.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 10:00am to 6:00pm 
Location: 127 Collingwood St, San Francisco, CA 94114 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, French. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No
Eligible Population: All individuals (men, women, transgender people), up to 24 years old, pregnant women, women with children.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Health & Wellness Education; Community Education & Mediation; Outreach; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Leaders in Community Alternatives, Inc. (LCA)  Electronic Monitoring
LCA allows participants to serve their time in the community working, supporting family, and receiving treatment while still being accountable.  www.lcaservices.com
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake 
Phone: (415) 525-5587 or (800) 944-1170 Fax: (415) 546-4147 or (800) 925-8049
Location:  160 Franklin St., Oakland, CA  94607
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30am to 5:30pm
Referrals: May self-refer, or be referred by Court, supervising authority, or community based program.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog.
Eligible Population: All individuals involved in the juvenile or criminal justice system, in custody and in community programs or alternative custody programs.
Faith Based: No. 


Direct Services: Electronic Monitoring; GPS Monitoring and Tracking; Continuous Alcohol Monitoring; Substance Abuse Testing; Parolee Monitoring.




Mission Neighborhood Resource Center
Harm reduction drop-in center in the Mission district, targeting the homeless and those at risk in the neighborhood with a focus on Latino immigrants. Peer-led and professionally-supported staff. Additionally, MNRC offers TB screening, urgent care, primary care, acupuncture, and HIV counseling and testing. Our women’s program on Thursday nights (6-8pm) provides dinner, hygiene kits, needle exchange, and social support for women. www.mnhc.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Any intake staff
Phone: (415) 552-1013 Fax: (415) 863-1882
Email: info@mnhc.org 
Hours: Monday - Friday, 7:00am to 7:00pm; Women only: Thursday, 6:00pm to 8:00pm (biological and transgender females)
Location: 165 Capp Street (between 16th& 17th), San Francisco, CA 94110
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-in only.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible; other accommodations made as needed.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Entry Point to Single-Adult Shelter System; Shower and Laundry Facility; Bilingual Case Management; Mental Health Support Groups; Community Building and Organizing; Access to Benefits (SSI, GA, TANF, etc.); Case Management; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis; Healthcare; Mental Health Treatment; Phone/Voicemail; Support Groups. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
        
________________


San Francisco Department of Public Health  With Open Arms a Second Chance Act Program 
With Open Arms, a San Francisco Initiative for Women, offers case management services for women sentenced to state prison or county jail, including drug treatment, mental health services, trauma recovery, housing, benefits enrollment, child reunificaiton, child behavioral health assistance, job training and immediate placement, legal assistance, continuing education opportunities, social support, and family strengthening and empowerment. The program represents a collaborative effort by HealthRIGHT360, Homeless Prenatal Program, Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights, SF Clean City, San Francisco Adult Probation Department, and San Francisco Parole. 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Program Director
Phone: (415) 449-0501 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm
Location: 1735 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: May self refer, or be referred by parole, probation, or community-based organization.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English 
What to Bring: TB clearance. Program will assist entering clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: You may be eligible if you are a woman in SF County Jail who has been sentenced to state prison or to serve a local prison sentence under PC § 1170(h)5(a) or (b); you are currently incarcerated in a state prison and will be released to San Francisco on parole or post-release community supervision (PRCS); you are currently on parole or PRCS in San Francisco. Transgender women welcome.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services, only for program participants: Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Shower Facilities; Storage Facilities; Transit Tokens; Health & Wellness Education; Case Management; Anger Management; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Vocational Education; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, and SSI; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Voting Outreach & Education; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


San Francisco Pretrial Diversion, Inc.  Court Accountable Homeless Services (CAHS)
To continually strive to provide the highest quality of pre- and post-release court alternatives.  Providing Court-referred clients with immediate access to services while maintaining a strong awareness of community safety and restorative justice. www.sfpretrial.com 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 626-4995 Fax: (415) 626-3871
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:30am-5:00pm
Location: 115 10th St., San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: Superior Court referral needed. Once referred, clients may drop in.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, and Chinese. Additional languages served by interpreter.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Individuals, 18 and older, referred by Superior Court
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Post-Incarceration Support. Clients with severe mental health issues are provided with close monitoring of mental health treatment and medication compliance.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  Community Programs  
The San Francisco Sheriff’s Department established the Community Programs to provide educational, vocational, substance abuse treatment, and batterers’ intervention classes, as well as a variety of specialized services designed to help ex-offenders successfully reenter the community. The goal is to achieve successful community reintegration on all levels. We nurture ongoing collaborations with a wide range of community-based agencies to help address the needs of the clients. Furthermore, clients are provided the opportunity to participate in the Five Keys Charter School. www.sfsheriff.com
To Get Connected        
Phone: (415) 575-6450 Fax: (415) 575-6451
Intake Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 1:30pm
Program Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am to 4:00pm
Location: 70 Oak Grove Street, San Francisco, CA 94107 
Notes: No referrals required; Drop-ins only Monday-Friday 8:00am-4:00pm otherwise by appointment.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible, first floor only. Limited service to vision-impaired.
Client fees, if any: None.  Fees are only charged for SWAP or Electronic Monitoring
Eligible Population: All individuals, ages 18 and older.
Faith Based: No.
 
Direct Services: Anger Management; Counseling; Employment Placement; GED Preparation; AA/NA; Life Skills; Literacy/Basic Education; Mentoring; Transit Vouchers. Referrals to other resources available as needed. Community Works provides job development and Manalive, a 52-week, DV certified batterers intervention program. 

________________


San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  No Violence Alliance (NoVA)
The primary goal of the NoVA Project is to address the violence plaguing San Francisco and in particular, the significantly high crime communities of Bayview Hunters Point, Western Addition, and the Mission Districts, by providing intensive services to formerly incarcerated individuals with a history of violence to aid in their reentry into the community and reduce recidivism. The NoVA Project approach engages men and women, and encourages them to take control of their violent behavior through rehabilitation, and to the extent possible, successfully reenter the community as a productive member of society. This comprehensive approach stresses offender accountability and violence prevention education. www.sfsheriff.com
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Sgt. Dunn
Phone:  (415) 575-6450 Fax: (415) 558-2490
Email: Nova.SFSD@sfgov.org        
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 4:00pm
Location: No drop-ins
Notes: Referrals are required. No first-time drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Men and Women who have been convicted of a violent crime(s). Must be soon to be/recently released from county jail.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Service: Case Management; Anger Management; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Transitional Housing; Mentoring. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


San Francisco Sheriff’s Department  Women's Resource Center
A collaboration between the San Francisco Sheriff's Department, Community Works West, and Five Keys Charter School.  This is a multi-service drop-in center for women and LGBTQ.  The WRC provides substance abuse counseling, anger management, Healthy Relationship classes, Seeking Safety, AA/NA, artistic craft therapy, as well as intensive case management. www.sfsheriff.com 
To Get Connected
WRC Main Phone: (415) 734-3150 
Location: 930 Bryant Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:30am to 4:30pm (open later on some days for some programs)
Note: No referrals needed. Drop-ins are welcome.  If you have questions contact Aida McCray at 415-734-3150

________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated.
Client fees, if any:  None.
Eligible Population: Women and LGTBQ ages 18 and older are eligible.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Phone (no voicemail); Substance Abuse Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education; Vocational Education; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Parenting Support/Education; Rising Voices is a paid writing and performance internship for 18-25 year-old women. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Saved by Grace 
Saved by Grace is a faith-based structured program dealing with all of life’s issues. Our focus is to rebuild self-esteem and help individuals readjust into society as productive citizens. We take a faith- based approach toward recovery and education. We mirror our beliefs in our actions. We teach faith but it is not a requirement for entrance. We focus on teaching a positive outlook toward rebuilding families torn by crime, drugs, and abuse to others as well as self. Our mission is to educate, rehabilitate, graduate, and restore the youth and adults back into the life they were meant to live. www.sbgm.vpweb.com


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Pastor Ronnie Muniz
Phone: (415) 955-7713 
Email: pastor.muniz@aol.com
Location: Call for information.
Notes: No referrals required.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: Formerly incarcerated people. 
Faith Based: Yes.
Direct Services: Clean and Sober Living; Life Skills; Anger Management; Relapse Prevention; Parenting Skills; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Restorative Justice Services. 
















































Senior Ex-Offender Program
Senior Ex-Offender Program (SEOP) gives direct and referral services to older adult offenders and formerly incarcerated individuals ages 50 and over.  SEOP is the first program in the nation to specifically work with older offenders who are transitioning back to the community.   A program of the Bay View Hunters Point Multipurpose Senior Services, the Senior Ex-Offender program provides counseling, information, and referrals for ex-offenders who are seniors. www.bhpmss.org/senior_ex-offender_program
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Frank Williams
Phone: (415) 822-1444 (Office); (415) 826-4774 (Administration) Fax: (415) 822-5327
Email: info@seopsf.org
Hours: Monday and Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm
Location: 1706 Yosemite Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94124
Notes: No referrals required. Drop-ins welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All formerly incarcerated people who are older adults. Men ages 50 and older and Women ages 45 and older. Housing is not provided for sex offenders.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Case Management; Transitional Housing; Counseling; Clothing; Personal Care/Hygiene Items; Substance Abuse Counseling; Food/Meals; Counseling; Food/Meals; Phone/Voicemail. Referrals to other resources available as needed. 


In the Spotlight:  Frank Williams
Frank T Williams is the Director of the Senior Ex-Offender Program (SEOP) in San Francisco, the first of its kind program in the nation, which focuses on older adults exiting the criminal justice system. He is a formerly incarcerated person who turned his life around 18 years ago.  Mr. Williams is a Ph.D. Candidate at Northcentral University.  He holds Master‘s Degrees in Humanity and Leadership, and in Criminal Justice.   




 P:\Reentry_Council\10 RESOURCE GUIDE\1 Resource Guide - Files\2015-16 Edition\Confirmed\Frank Williams\Frank Williams 2.jpg 

Additionally, Frank is a certified substance abuse counselor, a motivational speaker, artist, author, and mentor.   Mr. Williams received the Cambridge Who's Who in 2012.  As a spoken word artist he has received numerous awards such as the 2012 National Black Music Award, the 2012 All Indies Award, 2012 Oakland Indie Award, and a Grammy nod in 2013 for his CD, The Chairman of Spoken Words II.   In 2015, Frank received the Black Music AIM Award, recognition for outstanding community work. 
________________


SF Bay Counseling and Education    
Behavior is learned, re-enforced and sanctioned. Change is possible, understanding is credible, so hope can be conceivable. Our mission is to help those who come through our doors to help themselves, change, recover, and return to their families and community with the tools and resources to thrive and sustain wellness in a positive non-violent capacity.
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tim Karo, Program Director
Phone: (415) 759-9500 Fax: (415) 871-2211
Specific Intake Days and Times: Tues, Thurs, Fri and Sat        
Hours: Tuesday – Saturday, by appointment only. Intake Tuesday, Thurdsay, Friday and Saturday.
Location: 1700 Irving Street, San Francisco, CA 94122
Notes: Referrals sometimes required. No drop-ins. Please call for more information and appointments. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID. Program may be able to assist clients in getting this.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Based on documented income, GA, SSI, SSDI, employment. Fees range from $10 - $60 per session based on proof of income.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, Transgender people, ages 18-65.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter—linkage to shelter system; Rental Move-in Assistance; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Batterers Counseling (Domestic Violence); Parenting Program; Representative Payee Services; Housing & Eviction Defense; Restraining/Stay Away Orders; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.












































San Francisco Department of Public Health  Mobile Crisis Treatment Team 
To provide acute mobile psychiatric crisis evaluation and intervention for adults in San Francisco, regardless of insurance.  We are strongly committed to delivering family focused and consumer driven care, and developing a safety network within San Francisco County. 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 970-4000 
Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:30am to 11:00pm.  Saturday 12:00pm-8:00pm
Notes: No referral needed. Please call for assistance.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese, Taglog, Vietnamese. Other languages can  be accommodated.
What to Bring: Clients must exhibit psychiatric emergencies. 
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale. Accept MediCal, private insurance
Eligible Population: All individuals over the age of 18 who have psychiatric or mental health emergencies.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Psychiatric Inpatient Hospital bed; Mental Health Treatment. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




St. Anthony Foundation  Free Clothing Program
St. Anthony Foundation’s Free Clothing Program is San Francisco’s largest free clothing program, providing warm clothes, interview or employment apparel, and children’s clothing to homeless and low-income families and individuals.   www.stanthonysf.org/FreeClothingProgram


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 241-2600 
Location: 121 Golden Gate Avenue 
Hours:  
Men & Women Service Hours:
Monday – Friday
7:30am – 12:00pm (first come, first served)
Family Service Hours:
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday
1:30pm – 2:30pm (appointments only—please call (415) 592-2803 to make an appointment)
2:30pm – 4:00pm (lottery)
 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: All individuals needing clothes.
Faith Based: Yes.


Direct Services:  The free clothing program is for men, women, and children.






St. Anthony Foundation  Social Work Center
The Social Work Center provides comprehensive services for families and individuals under 60 who are dealing with issues related to homelessness and poverty. The primary goal of the Center is to provide services that support, stabilize, and improve the quality of life for homeless, low income, undocumented, and working poor individuals and families. www.stanthonysf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: David Monterde, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 592-2855        Fax:  (415) 766-6081
Email: dmonterde@stanthonysf.org
Hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 8:30am to 12:00pm, 1:00pm to 4:00pm; Wednesday, 8:30am to 12:00pm; closed the 2nd Thursday of each month at 2:30pm
Location: 121 Golden Gate Avenue, 2nd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: No referral needed. By appointment.  Call or walk-in to schedule.  Limited drop-in spaces available on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 8:30am and Fridays at 1:00pm.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 and older and families with the city and county of San Francisco.
Faith Based: Yes.


Direct Services: Substance Abuse Intake (Father Alfred Center, Monday-Thursday, 8:30am-10am); Case Management; Counseling; Crisis Intervention; Advocacy; ID Assistance (limited monthly DMV vouchers, Birth Certificates, SF City ID Program); Housing/Rental Assistance; Supplemental Food program; Clothing Vouchers.  Information about eligibility for benefits (SSI, CalWorks, CalFresh,CAAP).  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
St. Anthony Foundation  Tenderloin Tech Lab
The Tenderloin Tech Lab (TTL) is the Tenderloin’s only free technology center specializing in bridging the digital divide and looking for technology solutions for issues of poverty.  The TTL offers free intensive computer classes, one-on-one tutoring, job search counseling and life skills courses, all designed specifically for the learning style of adults struggling with poverty, addiction, mental health challenges or homelessness.  In addition to the work in our physical space, we also work with developers to create mobile technology solutions for challenges this population is facing. www.stanthonysf.org/TechLab
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Program Assistant
Phone: (415) 592-2766        Fax:  (415) 440-7773
Email: gbickel@stanthonysf.org
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:30am-11:45am, 1:30pm-4:15pm; closed Wednesday afternoon; Saturday 10am-3pm
Location: 150 Golden Gate Avenue, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94102
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.  Call for information.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Open to the public.
Faith Based: Yes.
Notes: 30 minute orientation required for all first time guests and guest who have not visited in past 12 months.  Call for info.


Services:  Access to Internet; Computer Classes; Computer Training.
St. Vincent de Paul  Wellness Center
St. Vincent De Paul Society’s Wellness Center is dedicated to responding to the call of our community, embracing a holistic healing approach to the needs our participants carry daily.  Inspired by our core values of compassion, social justice and spirituality, we are committed to bringing wellness, recovery and clinical best practices to all who come through our doors. Using a harm reduction model, the Wellness Center strives to meet people where they are by focusing on lending continued support to those who are struggling with substance abuse issues and other debilitating diagnoses. Our daily program consists of stress reduction techniques, exercise, selections of personal and spiritual development as well as health topic sessions. Good nutritional guidelines play a pivotal role at the Wellness Center. We offer healthy free snacks and lunch based on a thoughtfully designed menu of fresh local foods with high/dense nutritional value. All are welcome and encouraged to participate on the level that best fits their needs.  
www.svdp-sf.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tyler Butterfield, Program Manager
Phone: (415) 552-5561        ext.403
Hours: Business Hours:  8:30am-4:30pm; Class Hours:  9am-4pm.  
Location: 1175 Howard Street, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes:  All sessions are free.  Drop-ins welcome.  Lunch is provided for those participating in morning sessions.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.  
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years of age and older.  Open to the public.
Faith Based: Yes.


Direct Services:  Stress Reduction Classes; Personal Development; Healthy Eating and Fitness; Substance Abuse Support Groups; Men’s and Women’s Support Groups; Holistic Healing; Case Management.
























________________


Swords to Plowshares  Health and Social Services
The vision of Swords to Plowshares is that all veterans will have access to the care and services they need and deserve to rebuild their lives. War causes wounds and suffering that last beyond the battlefield. Swords to Plowshares’ mission is to heal the wounds, to restore dignity, hope and self-sufficiency to all veterans in need, and to significantly reduce homelessness and poverty among veterans. Founded in 1974, Swords to Plowshares is a community-based not-for-profit organization that provides counseling and case management, employment and training, housing, and legal assistance to veterans in the San Francisco Bay Area. We promote and protect the rights of veterans through advocacy, public education and partnerships with local, state and national entities.  www.swords-to-plowshares.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: James Robinson, Intake/ Eligibility Specialist
Phone: (415) 252-4788 Fax: (415) 252-4790
Email: jrobinson@stp-sf.org 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 12:00pm and 1:00pm to 5:00pm
Location: 1060 Howard Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Transitional and Permanent Housing programs at other sites and not available for drop-in.
Employment services at 401 Van Ness, Suite 302 
Notes: No referral required. Drop-ins are welcome. (Transitional and permanent housing are off-site, and not available for drop-ins.)
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Tagalog, Mandarin.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, military discharge form DD-214. Program will assist entering clients in getting these, and will see clients before the documentation is complete.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No client fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals, 18 and older, who are veterans of the U.S. Military. Discharge status irrelevant.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Hotel Vouchers; Permanent Housing; Rental Move-in Assistance; Transitional Housing; Access to Internet; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Mail Service; Phone/Voicemail; Transit Vouchers; Move in/out assistance; Mental Health Treatment; Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Medical Care; Anger Management; Community Education & Mediation; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Trauma Recovery Services; Vocational Education; Assessment & Application for Food Stamps, General Assistance, SSI; Credit Repair; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services; Housing & Eviction Defense; VA benefits assistance; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education; Visits of Family Members in Jails & Prisons. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation  Social Work Unit
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation’s (TNDC) mission is to provide safe, affordable housing with support services for low-income people in the Tenderloin community and to be a leader in making the neighborhood a better place to live. The Social Work Unit provides services with a Harm Reduction approach and operates under the philosophy of "meeting clients where they are at." Tenants are not required to participate in support services and all tenant participation is 100% voluntary. www.tndc.org 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 358-3938 
Hours: Monday - Friday; 8:30am-5pm
Office Location: 215 Taylor Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins welcome. Individuals must be housed at TNDC to receive services from the Social Work Unit.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. Some Spanish, Tagalog, Cantonese, Mandarin, German, Vietnamese.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees. Rent is based on regulatory requirements of each site.
Eligible Population: All currently homeless individuals with multiple diagnoses, referred by Human Services Agency. May not have a criminal conviciton for a violent offense within five years. May not have a criminal conviction for a sex offense (lifetime), and may not be a registered sex offender. No drug-related convictions within three years.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Permanent Housing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Tenants have access to Social Worker office phones during business hours; Shower Facilities; Transit Vouchers; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Representative Payee Services; After-school Program. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


















Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Representative Payee Program
Tenderloin Housing Clinic’s Representative Payee program provides representative payee and money management services to low-income individuals residing in San Francisco and receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration (this includes SSA, SSDI, and SSI).  Clients must be permanently housed or must be willing to seek permanent housing at the time of program entry.  The program assists clients with their housing search.  The program helps clients receiving Social Security benefits budget their income amount in a way that allows them to pay their essential bills and meet essential needs, first and foremost.  This includes rent, food, and utility bills.  www.thclinic.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Epifanio Ruiz
Phone: (415) 336-6171  x114  Fax: (415) 928-1058
Email: epifanio@thclinic.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:30am to 4:00pm
Location: 447 Turk Street, San Francisco, CA  94102
Notes: Clients may drop-in to inquire about services, but will need an appointment for an intake.  Clients can be placed on the waitlist through a referral from a community agency or a client self-referal.  Individuals who are mandated by Social Security to have a payee and those in Housing First buildings, are priortized on the waitlist. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Assamese. 
Accessibility: The Representative Payee office has a small step at the front door.  There is an office across the street from the payee office that is wheelchair accessible and services can be rendered there for mobility impaired clients. 
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: Clients must reside in San Francisco and must receive Social Security benefits in order to be eligible for the program.  Housing is not a requirement at program entry but clients must be willing to and obtain housijng after enrollment in the program.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:         SRO Housing Placement Assistance; Assistance Getting Driver’s License and Other ID; Representative Payee Services; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Assistance and Advocacy Maintaining Social Security Benefits.
________________


This Sacred Space
This Sacred Space is an organization whose objective is to share with those who are currently or formerly incarcerated the message that spiritual freedom is available now. Using dialogue, contemplation and meditation, our program points to this sacred space where the mind and heart experiences the peace that is eternally present.   www.thissacredspace.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Kenneth Dale Johnson Phone: (415) 706-3782        Fax: (707) 933-8846
Email: kenny@thissacredspace.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Mailing Address Only: Box 3, Fairfax, CA 94930
Notes: No referral needed. Contact to set up an appointment. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: No fees.
Eligible Population: All individuals currently in prison or jail or recently released. Must be clean and sober.
Faith Based: Yes.



Direct Services:         Counseling and Mentoring. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




Veterans Justice Outreach 
Veterans Justice Outreach (VJO) is a VA outreach program designed to collaborate with local justice system partners to help veterans who enter the criminal justice system and are in need of treatment services and/or alternatives to incarceration.
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Kyong Yi, LCSW  
Phone: (415) 281-5159  
Email: kyong.yi@va.gov 


Contact Person:  Ken Miller, LCSW
Phone:  (415) 281-5163
Email:  Kenneth.miller3@va.gov


Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm
Address: San Francisco VA Med Center 
Downtown Clinic 401 3rd Street, San Francisco, CA 94107 
Notes: No referral needed. Contact to set up an appointment. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: No fees.
Eligible Population: Vets who served before 1980; Vets who served after 1980 for at least 2 years and received an honorable discharge. Other Vets may still get help with housing and service referrals. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:         Social Work Services:  Assistance Accessing VA Benefits; Housing; Referrals; Employment Services; Residential Treatment Referrals.  Health Care Services: Medical; Dental; Pharmacy; Inpatient Hospital Services.  Mental Health Services: Sexual Trauma Counseling; Veteran Center Counseling Referrals; Substance Abuse Treatment; PTSD & TBI Treatment.  Other Services: Showers & Laundry; Free Telephone Access (local); Mail Box Service.




Village Connect  Culture Based Transformative Coaching (CBTC) 
Village Connect’s CBTC’s mission is to build the capacity of people to become more self-aware and self-directed resulting in sustainable positive transformation.  Our philosphy of change is steeped in a culturally competent approach that is client-centered and sensitive to the gender-specific and inter-generational dynamics critical to the individual and group.    CBTC is a strength-based coaching model that maximizes personal, professional, and academic potential.  Coaches/Facilitators trained in the CBTC model support clients to meet life’s opportunities and challenges by providing insights and guidance from an inside/out perspective rather than outside/in.  Utilizing a culturally proficient curriculum and community-based interdisciplinary approach, Village Connect effectively transforms the individual, family, and community.  www.village-connect.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Gaylon Logan
Phone: (510) 564-4240 
Email:  gl@village-connect.org
Hours: Varies
Location: San Francisco/Oakland/Berkeley 
Notes: CBTC is offered to individuals, groups and families.  Please call for information.   
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: Desire to grow 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Men, women, youth ages 12 and older
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Life Skills; Self-Empowerment; Personal Development.


Village Connect  Human Sustainability Groups (HSG)  
Aligned with our mission to build the capacity of people to become more self-aware and self-directed resulting in sustainable positive transformation, HSG is a peer support network and mentoring model of men, women, and youth coming together for the purposes of healing and self-development through interactive processes, networking, and education.  Subsequently providing leadership and excellence that ignites and transforms community.  www.village-connect.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Gaylon Logan
Phone: (510) 564-4240 
Email:  gl@village-connect.org
Hours: Varies
Location: San Francisco/Oakland/Berkeley 
Notes: There are 3 variations of HSG: (1) Ongoing drop-in groups, (2) closed cohort based groups, which operates on 6-month cycles, and (3) closed cohort based groups, which requires a 12-month commitment.  Please call for information. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: Desire to grow. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Men, women, youth 12 yrs. and older
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Life Skills; Self-Empowerment; Personal Development.
________________


________________


Meals
The following “Free Eats” and “Free Pantry” Charts are updated quarterly, and are available at many community locations in San Francisco, as well as online at www.freeprintshop.org. 
Insert PDF 12 here—leave header above (use landscape)—Use page 1 of PDF 12
________________


Insert PDF 12 continued (use landscape)  use page 2 of PDF  12
________________


________________


Food Pantries
 Insert PDF 13 here—leave header above (use landscape)
________________
Insert PDF 13 continued (use landscape)
________________
________________



Families & Children
If you are a parent or caregiver, the following resources may be of help to you or your children.
A Better Way  
A Better Way (ABW) provides counseling to children and their families.  The agency is a private, non-profit organization.  We mainly service children who are in foster care or at risk of being placed in out of home care.  We have three mental health programs: Therapeutic Visitation Services for families recently separated and in the process of reunification; Outpatient Mental Health Services for children needing individual therapy or families needing family therapy; and Early Childhood Mental Health Services for infants and young children to address their emotional and behavioral development.  Children seen through our program need to be Full-Scope Medi-Cal eligible. www.abetterwayinc.net 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Ann Chu, Program Director
Phone: (415) 715-1050 Fax: (415) 715-1051
Email: achu@abetterwayinc.net 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 6:00pm. 
Location: 1663 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA  94611
Notes: All clients are referred from Human Service Agency and authorized for services through Foster Care Mental Health. We also provide mental health outpatient services for children ages 0-5 who are at risk of emotional and behavioral development difficulties.  These children need to be Full Scope Medi-Cal eligible.


Berkeley Office:
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Mandarin. 
What to Bring: Medi-Cal or approval from Foster Care Mental Health
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Client fees are paid by Medi-Cal or per HSA work order.
Eligible Population: Children are the primary clients; family or adult involvement is through a child.
Restrictions: None.
Faith Based: No.
Phone:  510-601-0203  Fax:  510-601-4002
Hours:  Monday-Friday, 8:00am-7:00pm.
Location:  3200 Adeline Street, Berkeley, CA  94703


Direct Services:  Access to Internet; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals (snacks and juice for clients); Phone/Voicemail; Mental Health Treatment; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Visitation; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/EducationServices for Children. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


















Children’s Council of San Francisco
Children’s Council connects families to child care that meets their needs and works with parents, providers, and community partners to make quality child care and early education a reality for all children in our city.   www.childrenscouncil.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Any Resource and Referral Counselor
Phone: (415) 343-3300
Email: rr@childrenscouncil.org
Hours:  Monday-Thursday, 8:30am to 4:00pm; Friday, 8:30am to 12:00pm
Location: 445 Church Street, San Francisco, CA  94114
Notes:  No referral needed.  Drop-ins welcome.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Russian, Vietnamese.
What to Bring: Nothing required; helpful documents are anything showing household income or employment.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Eligible Population: Any parent who needs child care for one of these reasons:  working, looking for work, attending vocational training.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Resources for parents and families.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 
________________


Community Works West, Inc.  One Family/Parenting Inside Out
One Family is an initiative led by Community Works in collaboration with the San Francisco Children of Incarcerated Parents Partnership (SFCIPP) and the San Francisco Sheriff ’s Department. The goal of One Family is to strengthen families impacted by incarceration. 
www.communityworkswest.org/index.php/one-family


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Sarah Carson, LCSW
Phone: (415) 407-5130
Email: scarson@communityworkswest.org
Location: SFSD’s Women’s Reentry Center (mothers), SFSD’s Community Programs (fathers and mothers), CASC (fathers and mothers)
Hours/Meeting times: Call for times
________________


Things To Know
Eligible Population: Any parent.
Primary Community Served: Open to all formerly incarcerated parents (custodial and noncustodial) with children under 18
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: One Family provides Parenting Inside Out, a CPS certified parent education program. One Family also provides Family Transition Circles and Restorative Circles for reunification of families after release from incarceration.




Community Works West, Inc.  Project WHAT!
Project WHAT! is a paid job and leadership development program that works to empower youth, ages 13-1, who currently, or in the past, have had parents incarcerated.   Project WHAT! raises awareness about the impacts of parental incarceration on children, families, and communities.  www.communityworkswest.org/index.php/project-what


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Zoe Willmott, Program Manager
Phone: (510) 486-2340  Fax:  510-647-5860
Email: zwillmott@communityworkswest.org
Location:  Community Works' Project WHAT!
4681 Telegraph Avenue, Oakland, CA 94609 
Note: Application process is required.  No drop-ins, appointment required. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  English, Spanish.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fee, if any:  None
Eligible Population: Youth, ages 13-18, who have had a parent incarcerated (currently or in the past), living within or going to school in San Francisco.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Paid Internship; Snacks Provided During Meetings; Transit Vouchers; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Personal Financial Education; Services for Children. The program is a job, peer support group, and leadership development all in one. Referrals to other resources available as needed.








Compass Family Services  ACCESS Child Care
ACCESS  (Accessible Child Care Expediated for the Shelter System) is a child care subsidy that provides quality child care to families in San Francisco with the greatest need. 
www.compass-sf.org  or www.compass-sf.org/storage/pdf/ACCESS_child_care.pdf


To Get Connected
Contact:  Compass Family Services
Phone: (415) 644-0504
Notes:  ACCESS uses the SF3C list to enroll participants.  It is important that you are on the list and that your contact information is up to date.  To get onto the SF3C:
* Contact a shelter case manager
* Contact Compass at (415) 644-0504
* Apply online at www.sf3c.org or by phone at (415) 343-3300 or (415) 391-4956


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese.  We are all able to request translation services for languages outside of our capacity.
What to Bring: Please bring verification of shelter stay within the last 6 months, ID’s for all adults, and birth certificates for children.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: There are no client fees to receive the subsidy.  Childcare providers have their own set of policies that may include fees and/or other responsibilities asked of the family.
Eligible Population: Must have one child 0-3 years old and have lived in homeless/ domestic violence shelter within past 6 months.  Please call for more information.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Full- or part-time child care at designated family child care homes or centers for all children (ages 0-13 years) needing care until the youngest child turns 3 years old.







Holy Family Day Home  Infant, Toddler and Pre-K Program and Family Support Service
Our mission is to provide affordable, high-quality early childhood education and family support services in a stable, nurturing environment, thereby providing children of working families skills and hope for lifelong development. Seventy percent of our families are either homeless, in CalWorks Program or are the working poor.    www.holyfamilydayhome.org
To Get Connected
Infant, Toddler & Preschool 
Phone: (415) 861-5361
Fax:  (415) 861-8926 
Email: intake@holyfamilydayhome.org
Mailing Address: 299 Dolores Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: Call, email or write for more information.
________________


Things To Know
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members with an infant, toddler or pre-kindergarten age child. Individuals must reveal criminal conviction for violent or sex offenses, as well as registration as sex offender status. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services:  Preschool, Infant, and Toddler program.
________________


Homeless Children's Network (HCN)  Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment
In collaboration with a network of homeless services providers, HCN seeks to decrease the trauma of homelessness and domestic violence, to increase the strength and effectiveness of the HCN Collaborative, and to provide early childhood education and consultation to shelter-based child care and family child care providers. HCN provides flexible, well-coordinated and culturally competent services to homeless and formerly homeless children and their families. Funding and services provided through Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment Program (EPSDTP). www.hcnkids.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Kathy O'Shea, Program Director
Phone: (415) 437-3990 Fax: (415) 437-3994
Email: kathy@hcnkids.org 
Hours: Monday - Friday 9:00am to 6:00pm
Location: 3450 3rd Street, Unit 1C, San Francisco, CA 94124
Notes: No referral needed. Please call or write for an appointment. No drop-ins.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, ASL and Japanese. 
What to Bring: Medi-Cal ID card.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Serves homeless individuals from birth to age 17 with mental health diagnosis that meets medical necessity, such as Adjustment Disorder, Depression, or PTSD. May not have criminal conviction for sex offense or be a registered sex offender. Current abuse cases are referred to CPS.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Up to Two Years of Mental Health Treatment; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Outreach; Trauma Recovery Services; Victim/Survivor Services; Couples/Family Counseling; Parenting Support/Education; Services for Children; Facilitation of Visits in Jails and Prisons. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
































San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Compromise of Arrears Program (COAP) 
The Department's mission is to empower parents to provide for the economic and medical support needs of their children. COAP is a program for eligible noncustodial parents to reduce past-due child support (arrears) debt owed to the State.  This debt is owed because the State supported the family while the dependent children were on public assistance (welfare) or in foster care.  If you qualify for COAP you may offer to pay an amount that is less than the full amount you owe.  Any reduction in your arrears and interest owed will be based on your income and assets.  Arrears may be paid in a lump sum or in monthly installments over 36 months, depending on the individual circumstances.  www.sfgov.org/dcss or www.facebook.com/sfdcss
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Mary Mora, Child Support Officer/COAP Coordinator 
Phone: (415) 356-2871 Fax: (415) 356-2773  Email: mary.mora@sfgov.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals with an open child support case with child support arrears owed to the State.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services:   Intensive Case Management; Family Law; Establishment of Paternity; Child Support Orders; Health Insurance Orders. 
________________


San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Customer Service Outreach (Community & Jail Outreach Program)
The Department's mission is to empower parents to provide for the economic needs of their children. The Community and Jail Outreach  Program holds workshops with various groups in the community, including treatment facilities, to educate and assist noncustodial parents with their child support cases, obligations and issues. The Jail Outreach Program assists incarcerated non-custodial parents with outstanding child support issues that arise as a result of their incarceration.  www.sfgov.org/dcss or www.facebook.com/sfdcss


To Get Connected
Contact Person: George J. Smith, III Public Relations Assistant
Phone: (415) 356-2950  FAX:  (415) 356-2773 
Email: GeorgeJ.Smith@sfgov.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Locations: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105; 3120 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins are welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals with an open child support case. Any parent of a minor child can open a case.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Intensive Case Management; Outreach; Child Support Orders; Health Insurance Orders; Post-Incarceration Support; Family law.




San Francisco Department of Child Support Services  Noncustodial Parent Employment & Training Program (C-NET)
The C-NET program was developed to assist custodial and noncustodial parents with resolving barriers to employment, parenting, and their child support obligations. www.sfgov.org/dcss or www.facebook.com/sfdcss
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tyrone Owens, Child Support Officer, C-NET Coordinator 
Phone: (415) 356-2945 Fax: (415) 356-2774 Email: tyrone.owens@sfgov.org
Hours: Monday - Friday, 7:00am to 4:00pm
Locations: 617 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105; 3120 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Notes: No referral needed. No appointment necessary. Drop-ins are welcome.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: An individual with an open child support case. Any parent of a minor child can open a case.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet; Releases of Driver’s License or Other Professional Licenses, if suspended due to Child Support Enforcement Activities; Outreach; Education Regarding Child Support Obligations and Resources Available for Employment.
________________


San Francisco Department of Public Health  Child Crisis Services
To provide acute mobile psychiatric crisis evaluation and intervention for children and youth in San Francisco, regardless of insurance, up to age 18.  We are strongly committed to delivering family focused and consumer driven care, and developing a safety network within San Francisco County. 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 970-3800 
Hours: Monday - Thursday, 8:30am to 9:00pm; Friday, 8:30am to 7:00pm; After hours, on-call mobile team
Location: 3801 Third Street, Building B, Suite 400, San Francisco, CA 94124 
Notes: No referral needed. Please call first.  
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese, Taglog, Vietnamese. Other languages can  be accommodated.
What to Bring: Clients must exhibit psychiatric emergencies. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale. Accept MediCal, private insurance, Healthy Families, Healthy Kids.
Eligible Population: All individuals up to age 18 who have psychiatric or mental health emergencies.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Psychiatric Inpatient Hospital Bed; Mental Health Treatment; Crisis Case Management.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.










________________


Westside Community Services  Services for Children and Youth
Westside Community Services has been providing an array of community-based prevention, mental health, substance abuse, and social services to clients in the City and County of San Francisco for 40 years. Incorporated in 1967, Westside is one of the oldest community-based mental health agencies in the nation. The range of programs and services has varied over the years, while a commitment to providing excellent, high-quality, culturally and community appropriate programs has remained central to the core of the organization.  www.westside-health.org


To Get Connected
Child Youth & Family Outpatient Services and AJANI program (Afrocentric Family Focused Treatment) 
Phone:  (415) 431-8252  
Fax:  (415) 431-3195
Email:  AJANI@westside-health.org
Location:  1140 Oak Street 
San Francisco, CA 94117 
Notes:  For general info please call (415) 431-9000. 
________________
Things to Know: 
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Please call for information. 
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale. We accept MediCal, private insurance, Healthy Families, Healthy Kids.
Eligible Population: Youth up to 24 years of age who are exhibiting emotional problems and are at risk of developing more serious problems such as mental illness and substance abuse.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Individual/Group/Family Therapy; Clinical Case Management (school and community-based); Medication Support Services; Substance Abuse Prevention, Education, and Intervention; Social Skills Training; Anger Management; Vocational Resource Referrals; Educational and Literacy Support; Independent Living Skills Support; Housing Assistance; School Readiness Assistance. 


________________


Notes


	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

________________



Legal & Advocacy  

Legal
Low-cost or free legal assistance for various issues.
AIDS Legal Referral Panel (ALRP)  
ALRP works to improve or maintain the health of people living with HIV/AIDS in the San Francisco Bay Area by addressing their legal issues. It provides free and low-cost legal services in areas including housing, employment, insurance, confidentiality matters, family law, credit, government benefits or public accommodations, among others. www.alrp.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 701-1100 Fax: (415) 701-1400
Email: info@alrp.org 
Specific Intake Days and Times: M-F, 9:00am-5:00pm
Hours: Monday – Friday from 9:00am-5:00pm.
Location: 1663 Mission Street, Suite 500
San Francisco, CA 94103 
Notes: No referral needed. Please call or write to make an appointment.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Russian. Other languages can be accommodated.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: All ALRP services provided by ALRP staff attorneys are free. Depending on the income and the nature of the case, if the client is referred to an ALRP Panel Attorney, a fee may be charged according to ALRP's Fee Protocol.
Eligible Population Served: All individuals and family members who have HIV/AIDS and live in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, San Mateo, Sonoma or Solano Counties.
Primary Community Served: People living with HIV/AIDS/Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual/Transgender
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: ALRP assists clients with HIV/AIDS with legal issues related to their housing, including eviction defense. ALRP also provides assistance with legal issues related to private and public health and disability income insurance.  Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.
 
________________


Asian Law Caucus
The mission of the Asian Law Caucus is to promote, advance, and represent the legal and civil rights of Asian and Pacific Islander (API) communities. Recognizing that social, economic, political and racial inequalities continue to exist in the United States, the Asian Law Caucus is committed to the pursuit of equality and justice for all sectors of our society, with a specific focus directed toward addressing the needs of low-income, immigrant and underserved APIs.
Since the vast majority of Asians and Pacific Islanders in America are immigrants and refugees, the Caucus strives to create informed and educated communities empowered to assert their rights and to participate actively in American society. This perspective is reflected in our broad strategy which integrates the provision of legal services, educational programs, community organizing initiatives and advocacy. www.asianlawcaucus.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Philip Van, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 896-1701 Fax: (415) 896-1702
Email: philipv@advancingjustice-alc.org
Hours: Monday – Friday from 9:00am-5:00pm. Some evening and weekend clinics.
Location: 55 Columbus Ave , San Francisco, CA 94111
Notes: No referral needed. Please call or write for an appointment.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Cantonese, Mandarin, Tagalog, Vietnamese, Gujarati, Thai. 
What to bring: Proof of income.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population Served: 
All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Community Education & Mediation; Know Your Rights Trainings; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues (mainly juvenile and deportation cases); Employment Law & Employment Discrimination; Housing & Eviction Defense; Restraining/Stay Away Orders; Voting Outreach & Education; Census & Redistricting Advocacy. Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.
________________


Bay Area Legal Aid (BayLegal)
BayLegal's clients are low- and very low-income members of our communities. BayLegal's clients are spread across our seven county service area, from San Francisco to Livermore, Gilroy to Napa. They include the working poor, our elderly neighbors, military veterans, people with disabilities, and single mothers. www.baylegal.org
To Get Connected
Legal Advice Line for Screening: 
(415) 354-6360 
Hours: 
Monday and Thursday, 9:30am-3:00pm
Tuesday and Wednesday, 9:30am-1:00pm
Location: No drop-in services provided. Please call Legal Advice Line for screening.
1035 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referrals needed.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Vietnamese, Mandarin, Cantonese, Tagalog, French. BayLegal will serve clients in any other languages through use of Language Line or other assistance. 
What to Bring: If you receive an appointment after being screened by the Legal Advice Line, identification and documentation of U.S. citizenship or non-citizen status. BayLegal may assist in securing these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Will provide whatever ADA accommodation is necessary for any disability.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Must be out of custody.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Housing & Eviction Defense; Access to Public Benefits; Law for Domestic Violence Survivors; For PAES recipients, any civil legal issue that makes it harder to get or keep a job, such as driver's license suspension, child support orders, or credit issues (including referrals to Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement Services). Will not provide assistance with contesting a Temporary Restraining Order for people with prior criminal convictions for violence. For health care access issues such as Medi-Cal, Medi-Care, Covered California or private health insurance, contact our Health Consumer Center at (855) 693-7285. Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.
________________


Cooperative Restraining Order Clinic
Cooperative Restraining Order Clinic provides information on and assistance in applying for Domestic Violence restraining orders. www.probono.net/sf/volunteer/item.Cooperative_Restraining_Order_Clinic_CROC
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Tara Berta, Supervising Attorney 
Phone: (415) 864-1790 Fax: (415) 241-9491
Email: tara@roclinic.org 
Hours: By Appointment Only. Call Intake Phone, (415) 255-0165.
Location: 3543 – 18th Street, San Francisco, CA 94110
Notes: No referrals needed. Please call Intake Phone for appointment.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, other languages as needed. 
What to Bring: CA ID and any other relevant documents for the restraining order.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Legal Assistance/Advocacy. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Eviction Defense Collaborative (EDC) and Rental Assistance (RADCo)
The Eviction Defense Collaborative is the principal organization in San Francisco helping low-income tenants to respond to eviction lawsuits. Each year we provide emergency legal services, through EDC, and rental assistance, through RADCo, to more than 5,000 tenants in San Francisco. www.evictiondefense.org
To Get Connected
Phone: 415-947-0797
Hours: Monday – Friday from 9:30am-11:30am; 1:00pm-3:00pm
Location: 995 Market, #1200, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-In only.
________________
 Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Chinese, French, Russian 
What to Bring: Proof of San Francisco Residency
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: Certain services have sliding-scale fees. Nobody turned away for lack of funds.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: EDC’s legal services include counseling and legal help to tenants during the eviction process: programs include preparing a response to the lawsuit, limited representation at the settlement conference, and preparation of requests for delays of the sheriff’s eviction.
RADCo’s provides rental assistance to more than 600 families each year, in the form of interest-free loans and grants. Please note: The Eviction Defense Collaborative does not provide the services of a lawyer – clients act as their own lawyer. Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.


Golden Gate University School of Law  Women’s Employment Rights Clinic
The Clinic provides free or low-cost legal services to people with employment-related legal problems, with an emphasis on problems affecting women and low-wage immigrant workers. Law students provide legal services.  www.ggu.edu/law/werc


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Law Student Hotline 
Phone: (415) 442-6647 Fax: (415) 896-2450
Email: werc@ggu.edu
Hours: Monday – Friday from 9:00am-5:00pm, January-April and September-November, only.
Location: 40 Jessie Street, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105
Notes: No referrals needed. Please call the hotline for an appointment first. No drop-ins. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. Other languages can be accommodated.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fees for legal services. Possible costs for photocopying, etc.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Services: Legal Assistance/Advocacy. Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.
________________


Homeless Advocacy Project (HAP)
The Homeless Advocacy Project (HAP) may be able to help you if you have legal issues and are homeless, or threatened with homelessness, especially if you have a disability or minor children living with you. HAP also provides supportive social services to its legal clients to address underlying psychosocial needs. We primarily assist clients with federal disability and other benefit issues; eviction prevention; and immigration documentation. www.sfbar.org/volunteer/homeless_article.aspx


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 575-3130 or Toll Free (800) 405-4427   Fax: (415) 703-8639
Hours: HAP is closed on Monday. Tuesday - Friday, 9am to 5pm. Intake for new clients on Tuesday 1:30pm to 4:00pm.
Location: 1360 Mission Street Suite 201, San Francisco, CA  94102 (between 9th and 10th Streets)
Notes: No referrals needed. Please drop in during Tuesday intake hours.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken:  Spanish, Vietnamese, Mandarin.
What to Bring:  Any documents related to your case (eviction papers; social security notices)
Client fees, if any:  None if low-income.
Eligible Population:  Homeless or at risk of homelessness, with priority to individuals who have mental health disabilities and families.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: HAP is only able to provide assistance with certain types of legal issues. These include: Applications for Supplemental Security Income (SSI – federal disability benefits) and issues related to SSI applications; Eviction defense, especially if you are accused of causing a nuisance or your landlord has obtained a default judgment against you; Immigration documentation, if you are in the country legally but have lost your immigration documents or have not taken the steps needed to get proper immigration documents; Brief advice and referrals to other projects or agencies that can help you.
________________


Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco
We provide “self-help” tenants’ rights counseling. Clients are provided with information on laws affecting their rights as tenants, as well as resources and referrals. For public housing and Section 8 renters, we offer case management and advocacy. We provide referrals to attorneys as necessary. We will help with applications for Section 8 and Public Housing, as well as rent board petitions. www.hrcsf.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Counselor
Phone: (415) 703-8634  or (415) 703-8644 Fax: (415) 703-8639
Email:  info@hrcsf.org 
Counseling Hours: Monday – Thursday from 1:00pm-5:00pm
Location: 417 South Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referrals needed. Please call or drop in during counseling hours.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantoniese and Mandarin. Russian by special arrangement.
What to Bring: Please bring any relevant papers, including eviction notices or other landlord/property manager notices.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All renters of public and private housing.
Faith Based: No.


Services: Counseling/Advocacy—Housing Applications to Public Housing & Section 8. Please note: no direct legal services. Program does not provide housing or rental assistance. Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.


La Raza Centro Legal
La Raza Centro Legal is community-based legal organization dedicated to empowering Latino, immigrant and low-income communities of SF to advocate for their civil and human rights. We combine legal services and advocacy to build grassroots power and alliances toward creating a movement for a just society. www.lrcl.org 
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 575-3500 Fax: (415) 255-7593
Intake Hours: Monday –Thursday from 10am-12pm and 1pm-4pm; Fridays from 10am-12pm.
Location: 474 Valencia Street, Suite 295
San Francisco, CA  94103 
Notes: No referrals needed. Please call for appointment. Drop-ins are allowed, but appointments are preferred. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Services: Employment Law, solely regarding SF-specific labor laws; Immigration and Senior Law (Immigration in San Francisco and San Mateo County, senior law in San Francisco only). Referrals to other services provided, as appropriate.


________________


Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights  Second Chance Legal Clinic 
The Second Chance Legal Clinic assists clients who are working to overcome barriers to employment and housing because of their criminal records. www.lccr.com  or
www.lccr.com/programs/racial-justice/direct-services/second-chance-legal-clinic


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Clinic Coordinator
Phone: (415) 814-7610
Hours: Please contact the above phone number for clinic dates, times, and location, as well as how to get your RAP sheet.
Mailing Address: 131 Steuart Street, Suite 400, San Francisco, CA 94105
Notes: To receive the best legal advice, we encourage walk-in clients to come with a recent RAP sheet. Please contact Lawyers’ Committee to find out how to get a RAP sheet.  Drop-in okay.  No referral required.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals.
Faith Based: No.




Services: Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement; Employment Law; Housing & Eviction Defense; Voting & Outreach Education; Occupational Licensing – applications and denials; Criminal Background Reports – errors and violations; Public and Private Housing – applications and denials; Employment – applications, terminations and denials; Assistance with Driver’s License Citations and Suspensions.














































Prison Law Office
The Prison Law Office strives to improve the living conditions of California state prisoners by providing free legal services.  The Prison Law Office represents individual prisoners, engages in class action and other impact litigation, educates the public about prison conditions, and provides technical assistance to attorneys throughout the country.  www.prisonlaw.com


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 280-2621 
Hours: Monday-Friday
Location: 1917 5th Street, Berkeley, CA 94710
Notes:  If you or a family member have an issue that you believe we can assist with, please free to contact our office.  Letters concerning individual prisoners and prison conditions can be addressed to:
Prison Law Office
General Delivery
San Quentin, CA  94964
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated, please contact.
Client fees, if any:  None.
Eligible Population:  California state prisoners, and occasionally to California state parolees.
Faith Based: No.
Do to the large number of inquiries, we cannot accept telephone calls from prisoners and their families.


Services: For over 35 years this nonprofit public interest law firm has been in the forefront of legal efforts to enforce the Constitution and other laws inside the walls of California's prisons. With a small staff of attorneys and support personnel, the Prison Law Office represents individual prisoners, engages in class action and other impact litigation, educates the public about prison conditions, and provides technical assistance to attorneys throughout the country. (The office generally does not handle criminal appeals or habeas corpus petitions challenging criminal convictions.) 

California's prisons remain dangerously overcrowded at 147% of design capacity with over 122,000 prisoners crammed into 33 institutions, plus another 12,000 prisoners housed out-of-state and in community facilities. Basic necessities of life, such as medical and mental health care, are often lacking. Prisoners with disabilities are not recognized as disabled, and many are not provided reasonable accommodations as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Through both individual and impact litigation, the Prison Law Office has changed many California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation policies and practices, and has alleviated many of the cruel and unusual conditions that have been inflicted upon tens of thousands of state prisoners.




















Root & Rebound  Legal Advocacy & Direct Services
Root & Rebound’s mission is to reduce barriers and maximize opportunities for people returning from prison and jail in the Bay Area, throughout California, and beyond.  Though our Legal Advocacy and Direct Services Program we work with clients to identify barriers that make reintergation most challenging and address these needs by providing legal sericvices in-house and by collaborating with service providers across the Bay Area to provide extra legal services.  www.rootandrebound.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Aiashi Khalid
Phone: (510) 279-4662 Fax: (510) 666-4903
Email:  info@rootandrebound.org
Intake Hours: Monday –Friday, 1pm-4pm
Location: 1900 Addison St., Berkeley, CA 94704, San Francisco, CA 94104-0390
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Faith Based: No
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 yrs and older
Notes: Walk-ins at our Berkeley office.
Services:  Post-Incarceration Support; Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement Services; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Employment Law/Discrimination; Family Law; Housing & Eviction Defense.






Rosen, Bien, Galvan & Grunfeld LLP
Rosen, Bien, Galvan & Grunfeld LLP has a unique practice blending public interest and private sector litigation.  The firm represents individuals and companies in complex trial and appellate litigation
in state and federal courts.  Practice areas include:  Constitutional and Civil Rights; Class Action; Work-Place disputes in cases of discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination, non-competition agreements and wage and hour enforcement; Commercial Litigation.  www.rbgg.com


To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 433-6830 Fax: (415) 433-7140
Hours: Monday –Friday, 8:30am-5:30pm 
Mailing Address: PO Box 390, San Francisco, CA 94104-0390
Notes: No dop-ins.  Clients seen by appoinmnet only. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Faith Based: No.


Services:  Legal Representation; Litigation.
________________


________________


San Francisco Office of Citizen Complaints    
The mission of the Office of Citizen Complaints is to promptly, fairly and impartially investigate complaints of police misconduct. In addition to complaint investigation, the office provides a volunteer mediation program, performs policy analysis for recommendations to the Police Commission, and runs community outreach efforts.  www.sfgov.org/occ
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 241-7711 Fax: (415) 241-7733
Hours: Monday to Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm
Location: 25 Van Ness Avenue, #700, San Francisco, CA  94002 
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins allowed.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Spanish, Cantonese, Tagalog, Russian. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members who wish to make a complaint regarding a sworn San Francisco Police Department officer.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Mediation and Investigation of complaints against SF Police Officers. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
San Francisco Office of the District Attorney  Back on Track Initiative
The San Francisco District Attorney’s Back on Track Initiative is a court-driven program for offenders ages 18-30 who are charged with their first adult felony drug sales offense.   Defendants accepted into Back on Track spend a minimum of one year attending progress hearings and commit to complete community service, obtain their high school diploma/GED, and find employment.  We partner with Criminal Justice Specialists at Goodwill Industries, who both monitor individuals’ progress and assist with job training, job placement and other critical supports.  Successful participants have their cases dismissed and arrest records sealed.
 www.sfdistrictattorney.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Ranon Ross, Back on Track Manager
Phone: (415) 553-9665 Fax: (415) 553-9700
Email: ranon.ross@sfgov.org
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 850 Bryant Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes: Referrals are required for program; call for referrals.
 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Young adults in the criminal justice system. There are additional requirements; please call for more information.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Referrals into Back on Track program; referrals to other resources as needed.
________________


San Francisco Office of the District Attorney  Victim Services Division
The Victim Services Division of the District Attorney’s Office provides comprehensive advocacy and support to victims of crime and witnesses to crime. Our Victim Advocates provide services in English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Spanish, and Vietnamese. We start by assessing each victim’s needs.  This can mean crisis intervention, counseling, accompanying a victim to court, assistance with victim compensation, making funeral arrangements, intervening with employers and creditors when victims cannot work, and providing many other services needed to restore a crime victim’s life.  Our Victim Services staff is diverse and committed to providing culturally competent services.   www.sfdistrictattorney.org


To Get Connected
Contact Persons:  Jackie Ortiz
Phone: (415) 553-9044 Fax: (415) 553-9700
Email: jacqueline.ortiz@sfgov.org
Hours: Monday – Friday 9:00 am – 5:00 pm
Location: 850 Bryant Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA  94103
Notes: Individuals who are currently on probation or parole are not eligible to receive 
State Victim Compensation Funds during the period of their probation or parole.
 
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Spanish, and Vietnamese; other translation available.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Victims of crime; victims’ family members; witnesses to crime
Faith Based: No.






Direct Services: Assistance with "Victim Compensation Program" Claims; Crisis Intervention & Emergency Assistance; Help Navigating the Criminal Justice System; Resources and Referrals; Restitution and Property Return; Witness Relocation; Transportation; and more.


________________


________________


San Francisco Office of the Public Defender  Clean Slate Program
Clean Slate is a program of the San Francisco Public Defender’s Office that can help people “clean up” their criminal records. www.sfpublicdefender.org/services/clean-slate/
To Get Connected
Clean Slate Phone: (415) 553-9337 
Fax: (415) 553-9646
Main Phone: (415) 553-1671
Application: Applicants must complete the one-page “Clean Slate Program Application” which can be obtained at the Public Defender’s office or by viewing the website: www.sfpublicdefender.org. Applicants will also need a copy of their RAP sheet, available from the SFPD Identification Bureau for free. Send applications to:
PUBLIC DEFENDER’S OFFICE
Attn: Clean Slate Program
555 Seventh Street, 2ndFloor
San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No appointment required. Walk-in clinics are listed below:
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Must obtain copy of RAP Sheet from Identification Bureau, Hall of Justice, 850 Bryant Street, Room 475, San Francisco, CA 94103 (can request by mail or in person, Monday – Friday, 8:00am-3:00pm).
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: All people with a criminal arrest and/or conviction, or juvenile matter, from the County of San Francisco. Do not need to be a former client of the Public Defender, but must meet financial eligibility criteria. 




Free Walk-in Clinic Hours and Locations:
2nd and 4th Monday of the month, 10:30am-12:30pm: Arriba Juntos, 1850 Mission St. (English and Spanish)
Every Tuesday, 9am-11am: Office of the Public Defender, 555 Seventh St.
4th Wednesday of the month, 3pm-5pm: Village Community Center, 1099 Sunnydale Ave.
1st Thursday of the month, 9am-11am: Southeast Community Center, 1800 Oakdale Ave.
1st Thursday of the month, 9am-11am: Ella Hill Hutch Community Center, 1050 McAllister Street, SF
1st and 3rd Monday of the month: 10am-11am, Community Justice Center, 555 Polk St., 2nd Floor


Services: Dismissal of Convictions; Prop 47 Reductions; Seal & Destroy Arrest Records (subject to capacity limits); Certificate of Rehabilitation; Early Termination of Probation; and Reduction of Felony Conviction to Misdemeanor. Representation at court dates. Referrals to other services as appropriate. 
________________
San Francisco Office of the Public Defender  Reentry Unit
Children of Incarcerated Parents Social Worker and Adult Social Workers work with current and former clients of the Public Defender.  www.sfpublicdefender.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Simin Shamji, Manager of Reentry Unit 
Phone: (415) 553-1671  Fax: (415) 553-9810
Specific Intake Days and Times: 
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 555 Seventh Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: Referral required from Public Defender Attorney. By appointment only. 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, and other languages accommodated as needed.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Faith Based: No.






Direct Services: Assistance with Access to Benefits (SSI, GA, TANF, et al); Accompany to Court Dates; Counseling; Parenting Support; Help/Vouchers to Get State ID, etc.; Legal Assistance/Advocacy; Referrals to Treatment, Housing, Medical and Other Services. 


Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco  ACCESS Center (Legal Self-Help)
To provide linguistically and culturally appropriate self-help services to individuals seeking to access and navigate the legal system in the county of San Francisco. Areas of law are limited to Family Law and Civil Law  www.sfsuperiorcourt.org/self-help
To Get Connected
Info Line:  (415) 551-5880
Hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday 8:30am – 12:00pm and 1:30pm - 4:00pm; 
Location: 400 McAllister Street, Room 509
San Francisco, CA 94102 
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins available.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: Cantonese, Mandarin, Toisanese, Spanish, Italian. Volunteers also speak Russian, French, Portuguese, Tagalog, French, and other languages. Materials are multilingual.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. ASL interpreters available. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Populations: All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.


Services: Family Law Services: Dissolution of Marriage/Domestic Partnership; Legal Separation; Annulment/Nullity of Marriage; Established Paternity/Parental Relationship;  Child Support; Domestic Violence Restrating Orders; Step-Parent Adoptions.  Civil Law Services:  Small Claims; Civil Harassment Restraining Orders; Name Changes; Gender Changes; Evictions; Guardianship of the Person; Conservationship of the Person.
________________


Swords to Plowshares  Legal Department
War causes wounds and suffering that last beyond the battlefield. Our mission is to heal the wounds, to restore dignity, hope and self-sufficiency to all veterans in need, and to significantly reduce homelessness and poverty among veterans. Many veterans never receive the benefits for which they are eligible. The Legal Department of Swords to Plowshares helps veterans to cut through the extremely arduous VA benefits application process by providing free attorney representation, case management, and advocacy to indigent veterans by seeking benefits. www.swords-to-plowshares.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 252-4788  Fax: (415) 252-4790
Hours: Tuesday to Thursday, 9:00am-11:45am
Location: 1060 Howard Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins available.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: TB Clearance; Proof of homelessnes and veteran status (Defense Department Form 214). Program will assist clients in obtaining these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities are accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Populations: All veterans of the U.S. military. Must be homeless or veteran of the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan.
Faith Based: No.
Services: Legal Assistance/Advocacy—access to benefits for veterans of the U.S. Military. Referral to other services provided, as appropriate.


Tenderloin Housing Clinic  Legal Services
The Tenderloin Housing Clinic law office represents low-income tenants in San Francisco in all aspects of landlord-tenant and housing law. We primarily represent seniors, the disabled, and minority and immigrant families, often as defendants in unlawful detainer actions and in affirmative lawsuits for wrongful eviction, and to address substandard housing conditions. THC's attorneys are some of the most experienced and well-respected attorneys in San Francisco, with decades of experience representing low-income tenants. The law office also provides limited free legal counseling to tenants.  www.thclinic.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Steven Shubert, Legal Manager
Phone: (415) 771-9850 Fax: (415) 771-1287
Email: steven@thclinic.org
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 126 Hyde Street, San Francisco, CA 94102
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins welcome.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Tagalog, Assamese.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security card, Rental Agreement and/or lease, any late rent notices and/or Unlawful Detainer.
Accessibility: No wheelchair access. Reasonable attempts to provide accommodations will be provided as needed.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Populations: San Francisco tenants facing landlord-tenant and housing issues.
Faith Based: No.
Services: Free legal services for qualified participants.
________________



Advocacy
Legal Services for Prisoners with Children  California Coalition for Women Prisoners (CCWP)
CCWP is a grassroots social justice organization, with members inside and outside prison, that challenges the institutional violence imposed on women, transgender people, and communities of color by the prison industrial complex (PIC). We see the struggle for racial and gender justice as central to dismantling the PIC and we prioritize the leadership of the people, families, and communities most impacted in building this movement. www.womenprisoners.org  or www.prisonerswithchildren.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Samantha Rogers and Hafsah Al-Amin, Program Coordinators
Phone: (415) 255-7036 x4  
Fax: (415) 552-3150
Email: samantha@womenprisoners.org; hafsah@womenprisoners.org 
Hours:  Monday – Friday from 9:00am – 5:00pm
Notes: No referrals needed. Not a formal service site, but individuals can make appointments to come for support and referrals to other resources.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. In addition, Compañeras Program hightlights and supports issues of Spanish speakers. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, in and out of custody. 
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Assistance Finding Emergency Shelter; Assistance Finding Permanent Housing prior to or upon release; Some Access to Internet; Mentorship; Outreach to a wide cross-section of people including students, domestic violence workers, community service providers, and others; Other Post-Incarceration Support; Restorative Justice/ Survivor Impact efforts with violent offenders in San Francisco Jails; Coordinate with All Of Us or None to spread the word about Clean Slate efforts; Assist with Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Coordinate annual event for family members to visit prisoners. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
________________


Legal Services for Prisoners with Children    
We generally do not represent people in court or other legal matters. We are committed to training people to advocate for their own rights.  www.prisonerswithchildren.org
To Get Connected
Phone: (415) 255-7036
Email: info@prisonerswithchildren.org 
Hours: Monday - Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: 1540 Market Street, Suite 490
San Francisco, CA 94102 
Notes: No referrals needed. Call or write first for an appointment.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None. Voluntary donations accepted.
Genders/Family Composition/Ages Served: 
All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Pregnancy Information for Incarcerated Women; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues for California Prisoners and Their Families; Support Letters for Older Women in State Prison; Family Law Manuals/Advice; Workshops on Family Law Issues; Prison Advocacy, including support letters for incarcerated people who are experiencing problems in custody, such as lack of or substandard medical care, sexual harrassment or retaliation, problems with visits, etc.; Family Reunification Counseling; Support & Advice for family members visiting loved ones in jail or prison. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


Legal Services for Prisoners with Children  All of Us or None    
All Of Us Or None (AOUON), a project of Legal Services for Prisoners with Children, is a grassroots organization led by formerly-imprisoned people committed to fighting for the human dignity of currently and formerly-incarcerated people, and their respective family members, as well as against the systemic discrimination facing them while in captivity and upon their release. Through their grassroots organizing, AOUON is building a powerful political movement to win full restoration of their human and civil rights. www.prisonerswithchildren.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Alex Berliner, Manuel La Fontaine, Organizers 
Phone: (415) 255-7036 x330, x328  
Fax: 552-3150
Email: alex@prisonerswithchildren.org; manuel@prisonerswithchildren.org 
Hours: Monday - Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Notes: Please call organizers for more information. 
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated. 
Client fees, if any: None. 
Eligible Population: All individuals and family members, in and out of custody. 
All individuals and family members.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services:  Some Access to Internet; Mentorship; Post-Incarceration Support; Assist with writing support letters for people facing charges or the Parole Board; Coordinate annual event to connect family members inside with their children, grandchildren, and families on the outside through our Community Giveback. Referrals to other resources available as needed. Coordinate with other organizations to raise awareness of our struggle against systemic discrimination.\


Proyecto Common Touch  Get Out The Jail Vote/CA
Empowerment by knowledge and mission to distribute and make this relevant information available and accessible in or out of custody. www.proyectocommontouch.org
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Tommy Escarcega, Director
Phone: (510) 409-1662 Landline/Fax: (510) 845-4622 
Email: tommyescarcega@yahoo.com
Hours: Call for hours
Mailing Address: 830 Allston Way, Berkeley, CA  94710 
Notes: No referral needed. Call during business hours or write for appointment at other times.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish, some Portuguese.
Accessibility: May be arranged.
Client fees, if any: None. Donations accepted.
Eligible Population:  Women, Transgender
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Voter Education; Voter Registration; Phone/Voicemail; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Voting Outreach & Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed.


San Francisco Sheriff's Department  Prisoner Legal Services
We help the San Francisco Sheriff's Department in its mission to meet or exceed local, state and federal mandates regarding the housing and treatment of prisoners.  PLS provides San Francisco County Jail prisoners with meaningful access to the courts as well as advocacy and limited direct services aimed at assisting clients with problems occasioned by their incarceration and with barriers to reentry.   www.sfsheriff.com
To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Any Intern/Staff
Phone: (415) 558-2472 Fax: (415) 558-2490
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Location: All San Francisco County Jails, 555 7th Street, #201, San Francisco, CA  94103 
Notes: No referral needed. Incarcerated clients must submit a request for services; limited drop-in service for recently released prisoners.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. Translation services available. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities may be accommodated.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Incarcerated persons and persons recently released from the custody of the San Francisco County Jail.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Transit Vouchers; Post-Incarceration Support; Inmate and Parolee Legal Issues; Family Law; Housing and Eviction Defense; Restraining/Staw Away Orders; Voting Outreach and Education; Jail Conditions; Visits of family Menbers in Jails and Prisons; Child Support/Custody; All legal or official mail may be posted or received on behalf of an inmate upon request.
________________


________________



Regional Services
The following pages contain information on critical information for individuals released from custody and returning to areas other than San Francisco. 
Parole Regional Offices  Southern Region 
Insert PDF 14—leave header above
 




































Parole Regional Offices   Northern Region 
Insert PDF 15—leave header above

















































Alameda County






Probation Administration Oakland
400 Broadway
Oakland, CA 94607
510-268-7245


Hayward Probation
24085 Amador Street
Hayward, CA 94544
510-670-5354


Pleasanton Probation
5672 Stoneridge Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-551-6878


Abode Services    
Abode Services’ mission is to end homelessness by assisting low-income, un-housed people, including those with special needs, to secure stable, supportive housing; and to be advocates for the removal of the causes of homelessness.  Abode Services serves people in Alameda and Santa Clara Counties.  www.abodeservices.org


To Get Connected
Phone: (510) 657-7409 
Email:  info@abodeservices.org
Hours: Monday –Friday, 9am-5pm
Location: 40849 Fremont Blvd., Fremont, CA  94538
Notes:  Most of our programs require a referral from a service provider.  However, if
you are a veteran, transition-age youth, in need of emergency shelter, or living on the streets, we may be able to help with a referral.  Please contact us via phone or email.  You can also visit tinyurl.com/abodeclinic for the schedule of our mobile health clinic or call (510) 252-0910 to reach our shelter.  No drop-ins at main office. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Individuals and families who are homeless or about to lose their housing, who live in, or want to relocate to, Alameda and Santa Clara counties
Faith Based: No
Direct Services:  Emergency Shelter; Mobile Health Clinic; Housing Assistance for Veterans; Services for Transition-Age Youth Formerly in Foster Care; Supportive Services for those Reentering the Community through Post Release Community Supervision (must be referred through social worker to Alameda County Sheriff’s Office); Housing Support for Homeless (with low or no income who are seeking to be housed and employed); Medi-Cal and CalFresh Applications for Alameda County.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.




Center For Employment Opportunities (CEO)  Employment Services
The Center for Employment Opportunities (CEO) is dedicated to providing immediate, effective and comprehensive employment services to men and women with recent criminal convictions. Our highly structured and tightly supervised programs help participants regain the skills and confidence needed for successful transitions to stable, productive lives.  CEO’s vision is that anyone with a recent criminal history who wants to work has the preparation and support needed to find a job and to stay connected to the labor force.  www.ceoworks.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake
Phone: (510) 251-2240 
Hours: Monday –Friday, 8am-5pm
Location: 1212 Broadway, Suite 1700, Oakland, CA  94612
Notes:  Please call for more information. Must be on Alameda County Parole or Alameda County Probation.  Please get referral from supervising officer.
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fee’s, if any:  None
Eligible Population: All individuals over the age of 18 referred from Alameda County Parole or Alameda County Probation
Faith Based: No


Direct Services:  Job Readiness/Life Skills; Employment Training; Employment Placement.


Goodwill Industries of the Greater East Bay  Homelss Services Program
Our Homeless Services Program works specifically with individuals facing homelessness and the multitude of related challenges. This program offers employment and comprehensive support services to homeless individuals and families in Alameda County. This Program is primarily supported by a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grant, which provides for housing stabilization, case management, and in-house counseling for those facing chronic homelessness as well as community members more recently impacted by the economic downturn. Goodwill provides these support services at our One Stop Homeless Employment Center in downtown Oakland. Goodwill’s “Bridges to Work” initiative helps our homeless participants secure transitional employment and job training, and, once skills are established, search for competitive employment. In 2013, our Homeless Services Program served 622 individuals and continues to meet high demand for their services as community members continue to struggle with rising unemployment and subsequent instability in their housing.


To Get Connected
One Stop Homeless Center
1600 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland, CA 94612
(510) 903-3220
  
Goodwill Industries of the Greater East Bay 8-5 m-f
1301 30th Avenue, Oakland, CA 94601
(510) 698-7200
info@eastbaygoodwill.org


San Antonio Fruitvale Community Learning Center
29th Avenue (bet. International & East 12th St.), Oakland, CA 94607
(510) 698-7216
________________


Leaders In Community Alternatives  Transitional Day Reporting Center (TDRC)
The new Transitional Day Reporting Center (TDRC) is a community corrections reenrty center that bridges probation supervision services with comprehensive case management, barrier removal, and income benefits acquistion assistance.  In addition to the services LCA will have on-site at the TDRC, LCA will utilize Alameda County probation Department’s existing contracts for employment, vocational services and housing.  We also plan to utilize current contracts of the Alameda County behavioral health Care Services for substance abuse and mental health treatment.  The goals of the TDRC are to reduce recidivism, build self-sufficiency skills, for a thriving healthy community.  


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Roth Johnson
Phone: (510) 764-7900
Email:  rjohnson@lcaservices.com
Hours: Monday –Friday, 8am-5pm
Location: 400 Broadway, Oakland, CA  94604
Notes:  Please call for more information.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. 
Client fee’s, if any: None
Eligible Population: Clients of the Alameda County Adult Probation Department
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Access to Internet;  Assistance Getting Driver’s License/Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Transit Vouchers; Substance Abuse Treatment; Alcohol Monitoring and Substance Abuse Testing; Health & Wellness Education; Std/Sti Prevention; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Intensive Case Management; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship;  Outreach; Post-Incarceration Support; Restorative Justice/Survivor Impact; Trauma Recovery Services; Housing Placement Assistance; Cognitive Behavorial Therapy; Basic/Remedial Education; GED & High School Education; Reading/Literacy; Vocational Education; Assistance applying for CalFresh/Food Stamps; Assistance applying for PAES/GA/CalWorks; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Assistance applying for Health Insurance;  Clean Slate/Conviction Expungement Services; Voting Outreach & Education; Couples/Family Counseling;   Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education.


 






























Options Recovery Service
At Options, we do not just treat addiction, we treat the whole person.  Our mission is to break the cycle of addiction which causes homelessness, crime and broken families.  www.optionsrecovery.org
 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Greg Nottage, Intake Coordinator
Phone: (510) 666-9552 
Hours: Tuesday/Thursday, 8:30am-7:00pm; Monday/Wednesday/Friday, 8:30am-8:00pm
Location: 1931 Center Street, Berkeley, CA  94704-transitional houses are located in Oakland and Berkeley.
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible
Client fee’s, if any:  Medi-Cal/AB-109/Re-Entry Court/Private Pay $30 per session.
Eligible Population: Men and women ages 18 and older.
Faith Based: N/A
Notes:  No appointments/walk-ins are welcome.


Direct Services: Out Patient Alcohol & Drug Treatment/Transitional Housing. Options is a day treatment recovery program including 12-step study, self-esteem groups, relaxation training, yoga, anger management, life skills, relapse prevention, smoking cessation, individual counseling, acupuncture and a host of other services.  Other services include shelter/housing and mental health treatment.


OPTIONS DAY TREATMENT:
A day treatment recovery program including 12-step study, self-esteem groups, relaxation training, yoga, anger management, life skills, relapse prevention, smoking cessation, individual counseling, acupuncture and a host of other services.
Men’s Groups: M-F, 8:30-11:30 am (intakes at 8:00 am, walk-ins accepted)
Women’s Groups:  M-F, 1:30-4:30 pm (intakes at 1:00 pm, walk-ins accepted)
Program Duration: Options Plus is a twelve-month program; graduates have the option to participate in the Aftercare Program upon completion.


EVENING OPTIONS
Outpatient program for people who are working or studying and cannot attend during the day.
MWF, 5:30-7:00 pm (intakes at 5:00 pm, walk-ins accepted)
Program Duration: Evening Options is a twelve-month program; graduates have the option to participate in the Aftercare Program upon completion.


OPTIONS AFTERCARE
Support group and relapse prevention tools.
W, 8:30-10:00 am; 5:30-7:00 pm
Program Duration: Options Aftercare participants attend once a week for an undetermined length of time.


OPTIONS MENTAL HEALTH CLINIC
Therapy and individual case management to support those suffering from both addiction and trauma or a diagnosis of mental illness.


ADDICTION SEVERITY INDEX (ASI)
$150. Fee includes assessment, email results and recommendation. $50 per hour for any additional forms or services.
WIA Workforce Investment Act  Breaking Through Barriers
Our mission is to improve employment, vocational training, and educational outcomes via direct intervention/prevention post release of clients currently on parole or probation. Program is to achieve a reduction of recidivism rates and associated recidivist behaviors associated with Returning Citizens. Link to resource guide:  www.oaklandpic.org/reentry
 
To Get Connected

Contact Person: Zina Y. Taylor
Phone: (510) 768-4462 
Email:  ztaylor@oaklandpic.org
Hours: Monday –Friday, 8:30am-4:45pm
Location: 1212 Broadway, Suie 200, Oakland, CA  94612
Notes:  This program is dedicated to the formerly incarcerated returning residents 
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible-NO. 
Client fee’s, if any:  None
Eligible Population: All individuals between the age of 18 and 60 years old who are Alameda County residents.
Faith Based: No
(Parole/Probation) needing help finding employment.


 
Direct Services:  Job Readiness/Life Skills; Employment Training; Employment Placement; Supportive Services (transportation, union dues, book/school fees, etc).


                                                                                                                                                     








________________



Contra Costa County






Contra Costa County Probation
50 Douglas Drive
Suite 200
Martinez, CA  94553
Phone:  (925) 313-4000
Fax:  (925) 313-419


Contra Costa County Behavioral Health Access Line  Alcohol and Other Drug Services
Contra Costa County Behavioral Health Access Line, Alcohol and Other Drug Services, provides information on existing alcohol and other drug program treatment and prevention services. Referrals will be provided to available residential, detoxification, MAT, NTP, outpatient treatment services in the greater Contra Costa and surrounding regions.   www.cchealth.org/aod/


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Zachariah Todd, AOD Counselor 
Phone: (800) 846-1652
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am-5:00pm
Notes: Application Procedure: Call 1-800-846-1652


 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish
Accessibility:  ADA Accommodations: Wheelchair accessibility 
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.  No one will be denied services based on inability to pay.
Eligible Population: Must be a Contra Costa County resident.
Faith Based: No


Direct Services:  Contra Costa Residents can access Alcohol and Other Drugs Services through multiple ports of entry: The Information and Referral Phone Line provides information to the general public, and makes prevention referrals 800-846-1652 (Call Toll Free).

Other Behavioral Health Division Resources
Mental Health Access: 1-888-678-7277
Suicide Crisis Hotline: 1-800-233-2900
Homeless Hotline: 1-800-799-6599


Additional Resources:  Contra Costa Crisis Center (800) 833-2900 (24-Hour Service);  HIV/AIDS/TB Testing & Services (925) 313-6770;  Legal Aid (800) 551-5554 or (925) 219-3325;  Mental Health Crisis Services (925) 646-2800 (24-Hour Service);  Public Health Information (800) 479-9664;
Rape Crisis Hotline (800) 670-7273 (24-Hour Service); Stand for Families Free of Violence Shelters & 24-Hour Hotline (888) 215-5555 or 925-827-0212; Veterans Services (925) 372-2000.








Discovery House  Residential Substance Abuse Program
Discovery House provides a 90-day residential substance abuse treatment program Provides a 90-day residential substance abuse treatment program for men utilizing a therapeutic community/social modality. Services include individual, group, and family counseling, psychological and physical evaluation, chemical dependency and co-dependency education, 12-Step work, Narcotics Anonymous meetings, and recreational activities. Arranges for vocational rehabilitation and other services as needed. Some slots available through AB109.  www.cchealth.org  and 
www.cchealth.org/aod/pdf/Discovery-House-brochure.pdf


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Susan Martinez or Intake 
Phone: (925) 646-9270 Fax: (925) 646-9276
Hours: 24 hours per day/7 days per week
Location: 4645 Pacheco Blvd., Martinez, CA  94553
Notes: Application Procedure: Apply by telephone by calling 1-800-846-1652.
Transportation: From Pleasant Hill BART, take County Connections bus #116
(headed towards Am-Track), get off at Pacheco and Arthur. 
 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish
Accessibility:  ADA Accommodations: Wheelchair accessibility 
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.  No one will be denied services based on inability to pay.
Eligible Population: Men (only), 18-64 years of age.  Must be a Contra Costa County resident.
Faith Based: No
Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Individualized Program; Exercise & Recreational Activities; Vocational Rehabilitation; Supportive Services & Referrals.












































Rubicon Programs  Financial Opportunity Center 
Rubicon’s mission is to transform East Bay communities by equipping low-income people to break the cycle of poverty. Rubicon finds support that’s right for each individual – a personalized, comprehensive collection of services that includes job placement, housing, legal services, and financial literacy. We place low-income East Bay residents in jobs and housing and get them access to legal services and healthcare. www.rubiconprograms.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Rubicon Main Line 
Phone: (510) 412-1725
Hours: Monday-Thursday: 8:30-5:00pm Friday: 8:30-12:00pm
Location:  101 Broadway, Richmond, CA  94808 
Notes: Please call for upcoming Information Session and enrollment dates. If you are supervised under AB109 or Second Chance probation, please contact your assigned Officer for a referral.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Homeless, AB109 and Second Chance Probation, and Parents returning home within last 180 days
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Employment Readiness; Financial Literacy & Income Support; Healthcare Enrollment; Housing Assistance; Vocational Training Placement; Job Placement; Parenting (partner on-site); Anger Management (partner on-site); Education (literacy and GED services partner on-site); VITA Tax Preparation Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.




________________


Shelter Inc.   
SHELTER, Inc. strives to realize a vision: Re-building lives, one family at a time, by giving them a home, the skills and the resources to live the life they deserve.  The mission of SHELTER, Inc. is to prevent and end homelessness for low-income residents of Contra Costa County by providing resources that lead to self-sufficiency.  Our work encompasses three main elements:
preventing homelessness through rental assistance, case management, and housing counseling services; ending the cycle of homelessness by providing 3 to 24 months of housing in combination with supportive services such as job training, educational services and counseling; and by providing affordable housing to low-income households, including such special needs groups as transition-age youth, people with HIV/AIDS and those with mental health disabilities.  www.shelterinc.org




To Get Connected
General Inquiries: (925) 335-0698
Prevention and Homeless Services: ONE DOOR, (925) 338-1038 (Monday-Friday, except holidays, 9:00am-4:00pm)
Main Office:  1815 Arnold Drive, Martinez, CA  94553
Notes: For the Rental Assistance Program and application process please call 925-338-1038 between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. one time only Monday through Friday (except holidays).  Must call first for an appointment, No drop-ins.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to bring:  For services we ask you have a picture ID, Social Security card and proof of income. Appointment is necessary.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Men and women 18 years and older, with or without children, must be a Contra Costa County resident.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services:  Interim Housing for Families with Children Under 18 Years Old; Transitional Housing; Family Rapid Rehousing; Rental Assistance; Permanent Supportive Housing; Supportive Services for Veteran Families; Intensive Case Management.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 

















Kern County






Adult Felony Probation
1415 Truxtun Avenue
Bakersfield, CA 93301
Phone:  (661) 868-4500


Kern County Probation Administrative Offices
Main Office
2005 Ridge Road
Bakersfield, CA 93305
Phone:  (661) 868-4100


The Mission at Kern County
The Mission at Kern County is the largest provider of homeless and addiction recovery services in all of Kern County.  The Mission at Kern County is the place where the homeless and addicted can come not just for a day of food and night of shelter, but Christ-centered long-term care that transforms lives. The Mission at Kern County’s purpose is to offer an environment conducive to physical, emotional and spiritual well-being of the people we serve by providing hope and future through Jesus Christ.  www.thebrm.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Staff 
Phone: (661) 325-0863
Email:  info@themissionkc.org
Hours: Monday-Thursday: 8:30-5:00pm Friday: 8:30-12:00pm
Location:  816 East 21st Street, Bakersfield, CA  93305
Notes: Please call for information regarding services.  No referral needed.


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: male Only Shelter.  Must not have a conviction for any sex offense or arson and no AB109 placement
Faith Based: Yes.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Hygiene/Personal Care Items;  Food/Prepared Meals; Education Services; Primary Healthcare Services; Homeless Recovery Services; Counseling; Life Skills/Life Management; Spiritual Encouragement; Addiction Revovery/Substance Abuse; Discipleship Program. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






St. | Bakersfield, CA 93305 | (661) 325-0863 |
Salvation Army  Adult Rehabilitation Center
The Salvation Army’s Adult Rehabilitation Centers provide spiritual, social and emotional assistance for men and women who have lost the ability to cope with their problems and provide for themselves.  Each center offers residential housing, work, and group and individual therapy, all in a clean, wholesome environment. The physical and spiritual care that program participants receive prepares them to re-enter society and return to gainful employment. Many of those who have been rehabilitated are reunited with their families and resume a normal life. www.bakersfield.satruck.org/rehabilitation-program


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Brian Austin
Phone: (800) 728-7825 or (661) 325-8626 ext. 138
Email:  brian.austin@usw.salvationarmy.org
Location:  200 19th St, Bakersfield CA 99301 
Notes: No referral needed. Drop-ins allowed. Minimum 6 month program. 


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: State-Issued ID, Social Security Card.
Accessibility:  No.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Must be an adult male and healthy enough to work. Drug & Alcohol Free Environment. No SSI, Unemployment, or Disability Recipients. 
Faith Based: Yes.


Direct Services: Residential Treatment; Employment Training; Therapy; Clothing; Hygiene/Personal Care Items;  Food/Prepared Meals; Life Skills.



















Los Angeles County






Los Angeles Probation Information Center
Toll-Free Telephone: 1-866-931-2222
Email:  pic@probation.lacounty.gov


Delancey Street Foundation  Los Angeles
Delancey Street is a residential education center for former substance abusers and ex-convicts. Its philosophy is that the people with the problems can teach themselves to become the solution. The program requires a minimum two-year commitment, and many individuals stay for longer. The Delancey Street Foundation Los Angeles facility is located near midtown, right off the Hollywood freeway. The facility, housing approximately 300 residents, was constructed as a 220 room hotel; the Mission style building complex includes a huge ballroom for catering events for up to 500 people, with smaller catering rooms as well. The buildings surround a large 8,000 square foot tropical garden with cascading waterfalls. Residents have completely renovated the building since we bought it in 1993. In order to make the hotel more of a home, residents turned the guest rooms into living units ranging from dorms for the newcomers into small apartments as residents earn their way to more spacious living quarters, and opened up the dining area to 6,000 square feet for resident meals. Delancey Street-Los Angeles also has a 50,000 square foot warehouse Business Complex located in Montebello. This complex houses a number of Delancey Training Schools including Moving & Trucking, Automotive, Auto Body Shop, Warehouse Shipping and Receiving, Terrarium, Ceramics and Iron Handcraft Works and Sales.  www.delanceystreetfoundation.org 


To Get Connected
Contact Persons: Intake Coordinator
Phone: (323) 644-4122 Fax: (323) 644-4147
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days
Location: 400 N. Vermont Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90004 
Notes: No referrals needed. Drop-ins welcome.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible. Other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees, if any: No fee.
Eligible Population: Men, Women, Transgender people, ages 18 older. May not have a criminal conviciton for arson; may not be a registered sex offender; may not have a serious medical/mental health condition requiring medication.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Medical CareEmergency; Anger Management; Mentorship; Basic/Remedial Education; College & Graduate Education; GED & High School; Education; Reading/Literacy; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Inmate & Parolee Legal Issues; Voting Outreach & Education; Parenting Support/Education. Referrals to other resources available as needed. 


Five Keys Charter School  Los Angeles
Five Keys Charter School provides educational options for obtaining a High School Diploma, GED, Computer Literacy, and English as a Second Language.  Our goal is to increase educational levels, finding employment, and reintegrating into the community. Class times and schedules are flexible, offering students classroom based instruction and independent study programs. Five Keys partners with both Worksource and Youthsource centers that provide wrap around support services that our students need to meet their education and Career goals. We have twelve community locations throughout Los Angeles County.  www.fivekeyscharter.org 
 
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Jose Sanchez, Administrative Coordinator
Phone: (415) 638-1284 Fax: (415) 734-3314
Email:  joses@fivekeyscharter.org
Administrative Office:  2677 Zoe Avenue, Huntington Park, CA 90255 
Hours:  Monday-Friday, 8:30am-4:30pm
Notes: Free education.  GED test is paid for by 5 Keys.  No referral needed. Drop-ins  welcome.  We have numerous locations in Los Angeles County.  Call for a location near you. 
________________
 
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 and older.
Faith Based: No.
Locations:
WorkSource CA -Hub Cities Consortium, 2677 Zoe Ave, Huntington Park, CA 90255
Southeast L.A.-Crenshaw WorkSource Center, 3965 S. Vermont Ave Los Angeles, CA 90037
WorkSource Center Wilshire, 3550 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 500 Los Angeles, CA 90010
WorkSource Center Compton, 2939 E. Pacific Commerce Dr. Compton, CA 90221
WorkSource Center Goodwill, 342 San Fernando Rd.  Los Angeles, CA 90031
WorkSource El Monte, 11635 Valley Blvd. Unit G, El Monte, CA 91732
WorkSource Center Alhambra, 2550 W. Main St. #103, Alhambra, CA 91801
Boyle Heights Technology Youth Center, 1600 E. Fourth St., Los Angeles, CA 90033
Para Los Niños East Los Angeles, 3845 Selig Pl. Suite #150, Los Angeles, CA 90031
New Beginnings Lancaster, 44814 Cedar Ave., Lancaster, CA 93534
*HealthRIGHT360, 2307 W. 6th Street Los Angeles, CA 90057
*Amity Foundation: Amistad de Los Angeles,  3745 S. Grand Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90007
*These sites do not have open enrollment.


Direct Services: Basic/Remedial Education; English as a Second Language; GED & High School Education; Reading/Literacy.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 




















HealthRIGHT360  FOTEP El Monte
The mission of HealthRIGHT360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need.  We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community. www.healthright360.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Sonia Crites 
Phone: (626) 258-0300 Fax: (626) 401-2109 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am to 6:00pm
Locations:  12423 Dahlia Avenue, El Monte, CA 91732
Notes: Admission requires parole agent approval; 2 children under the age of 12 are allowed to stay with their mother.  If the need arises to accommodate more than 2 children this will be assessed on an individual basis.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.  Translation services can be made available.
What to Bring: You may bring 7 to 10 days’ worth of clothing, may bring preferred bedding, linens, and hygiene items.  Hygiene items will be provided if a client does not have any.  If you do not already have a California ID and Social Security Card, the program will assist you in obtaining these items.
Accessibility: Facility is wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Funded through DRP for female parolees..
Eligible Population: Female paroles and up to 2 children under the age of 12 for each participant. 
Not Eligible:  Unable to accept anyone with a history of harm to children or required to register as a sex offender.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Trauma-Informed Treatment for Women; Transitional Housing Referrals; Substance Abuse Services; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Co-Occuring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education Referrals; Application Assistance with SSI; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
























HealthRIGHT360  Outpatient Services
The mission of HealthRIGHT360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need.  We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community. www.healthright360.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Thomas Smith, Intake 
Phone: (213) 351-2832 Fax:  (213) 351-2853 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 7:00am to 3:30pm
Locations:  145 West 22nd Street, Los Angeles, CA 90007
Notes: Must be on parole with SASCA/Parole authorization
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: Proof of SASCA authorization.
Accessibility: Wheelchair and other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees: Funded through SASCA.
Eligible Population: Male/Female for continuum of care funded through SASCA.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Trauma-Informed Treatment for Co-Ed Clients; Transitional Housing; Sober Living; Substance Abuse Services Referrals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Co-Occuring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education Referrals; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education Referrals.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.


















































HealthRIGHT360  Residential Treatment Services
The mission of HealthRIGHT360 is to give hope, build health, and change lives for people in need.  We do this by providing compassionate, integrated care that includes primary medical, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment.  Our services aim to relieve the burden of societal problems by promoting wellness, healthy relationships, productive living, and community. www.healthright360.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Thomas Smith, Intake 
Phone: (213) 351-2832 Fax:  (213) 351-2853 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 7:30am to 4:00pm
Locations:  2307 West 6th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90057
Notes: Admission requires parole agent approval.  If you cannot reach intake please contact Tracy Bracey at (213) 35102829
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.  If you need interpreter please let us know. 
What to Bring: You may bring clothing items (up to 10 days), a portable radio and a cell phone.  If you do not already have a California ID and Social Security Card, the program will assist you in obtaining these items.
Accessibility: Facility is wheelchair accessible including ADA rooms available.
Client fees: Program is funded through CDCR.
Eligible Population: Male parolees ages 18 and over.
Not Eligible:  Special registrations are ineligible for admissions.  Please call.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Trauma-Informed Treatment for Men; Transitional Housing; Gender Responsive Facilities; Transitional Housing Referrals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Mentorship; Trauma Recovery Services; GED & High School Education; Application Assistance with SSI, Child Support, Birth Certificates; Job Readiness/Life Skills; 52 Sessions of CJ or Court Mandated Batters Program; Couples/Family Counseling; Family Reunification; Parenting Support/Education.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.




















PATH  Supportive Services/Interim & Transitional Housing
People Assisting The Homeless (PATH) is a family of agencies working together to end homelessness for individuals, families, and communities throughout Southern California. We strive to do this by prioritizing housing while providing customized supportive services for people in need. Our agencies each address homelessness in a different way—supportive services, permanent housing development, support for homeless families, and community engagement—all of which ultimately help the people we serve make it home.   www.epath.org/site/main.html


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Receptionist
Phone: (323) 644-2216 
Email:  path@epath.org
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am to 12:00pm, and 12:30pm to 4:00pm.
Address:  Central Facility, 340 North Madison Avenue, Los Angeles, CA  90004
Notes: Please call for information.
    
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: CA ID, Social Security Card, updated TB test, verification of income.  Program will assist clients getting these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair and other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Homeless individuals, families, veterans.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Substance Abuse Treatment; Transitional Employment; Supportive Housing.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 


    









































Weingart Center  Homeless Services
The Weingart Center is a non-profit comprehensive human services organization that was established in 1983 after recognizing that widespread homelessness was a new phenomenon facing the city of Los Angeles. The Weingart Center provides homeless individuals with the basic skills necessary to stabilize their lives, secure income and find permanent housing.  Our organization’s mission is to empower and transform lives by delivering innovative solutions to combat poverty and break the cycle of homelessness. The Weingart Center transitions homeless men and women from street life to self-sufficiency through a variety of programs and services, such as: Workforce Development, Mental Health & Substance Abuse Treatment, Case Management, Veterans Transition Housing, Women’s Renaissance, Re-entry Programs, and various other solutions.  www.weingart.org/index.php


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Van Bellows 
Phone: (213) 627-2151 Fax: (213) 489-3108
Email:  center@weingart.org
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00am-4:30pm 
Locations:  566 South San Pedro Street, Los Angeles, CA 90013
Notes: For assistance on how to get help, please call our Resource Center at 213-689-2160 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: CA ID, Social Security Card, program will assist clients to obtain these documents, and no more than two weeks ‘of clothing.
Accessibility: Wheelchair and other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals at least 18 years of age.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Assistance with Permanent Housing; Workforce Development; Vocational Training; Job Placement Assistance; Mental Health & Substance Abuse Treatment; Case Management; Veterans Transition Housing; Women’s Renaissance; Reentry Programs; Trauma-Informed/Gender Responsive Programs; Clinical Services.  Referrals to other resources available as needed. 
 











Marin County






Marin County Probation
4 Jeannette Prandi Way 
San Rafael, CA  94903
Phone:  (415) 499-7454 


Homeward Bound of Marin  Family Center – Emergency Shelter
Homeward Bound operates the only emergency shelter for homeless families in Marin County, which serves as the entry point for our Family Services Program.  Resource Counselors organize educational and fun activities for children, such as a Teen Activity Group for weekly outings, trips to the beach, pizza/game nights, etc., that enrich their lives and offer a sense of community. Families create action plans that might include improving parenting skills, finding consistent child care, accessing health care, pursuing new educational goals, counseling, job training and securing long-term housing.   www.hbofm.org/Homeless-Families.html or www.hbofm.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Resource Counselor
Phone:  (415) 457-2115
Hours: Open (please call).
Location: 430 Mission Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901
Notes: Call for availability.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, spanish.
Accessibility:  Lower units are wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be a Marin resident, must be a parent with a minor child(ren).
Faith Based: No
Direct Services: Shelter; Support for Job and Housing Search; Food Assistance; Referrals to Services such as Credit Repair, Tax Help, and Financial Literacy. Families with children under 5 years old have access to child care with Head Start.










Homeward Bound of Marin  Services For Homeless Adult
The Mill Street Center is the "front door" of our Adult Services Program, the 55-bed Mill Street Center in San Rafael is the county's only night-to-night emergency shelter for homeless individuals. It serves both men and women in separate dormitory-style rooms. A network of volunteers from three dozen churches and community groups shares a monthly rotation to provide a home-cooked hot meal to Mill Street residents. This significant gift has endured since the center opened more than 25 years ago.  As space becomes available, committed residents "graduate" to New Beginnings Center, a second-step shelter that allows residents to stay up to 6 months. 
www.hbofm.org/Homeless-Adults.html or www.hbofm.org 
To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Resource Counselor
Phone:  (415) 457-9651 or (800) 428-1488
Hours: Intake:  Call Monday-Friday at 8:00am.  For questions call anytime.
Location: 190 Mill Street, San Rafael, CA  94901
Notes: Call for availability.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: Yes, $3 per night.  If unable to pay please speak to program manager.
Eligible Population: Must be a Marin resident, must be unaccompanied adult at least 18 years of age.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Counseling; Food Assistance/Prepared Meals.  Referrals to services such as credit repair, job training, and recovery support or medical care.



















Napa County






Napa County Probation

1125 Third St.
Napa, CA  94559

Phone: (707) 253-4431

Fax: (707) 253-4178




Community Action of Napa Valley  Hope Center      
The Hope Resource Center is a drop-in facility that provides basic services such as showers, restrooms, mail, phones and laundry for homeless adults throughout the day. A second tier of services, including medical care, job development, housing assistance, and mental health outreach and assessment are also provided through Community Action Napa Valley (CANV) and other participating agencies.   http://canv.net-flow.com/


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Staff 
Phone: (707) 259-8133 or (707) 253-6156
Fax:  (707) 253-6156
Email:  canv@can-v.org (for additional information)
Intake Hours:  8:00am-4:30pm 
Location:  1301 4th Street, Napa, CA  94559
Notes: Must be at least 18 years old and a Napa County resident to receive services. 


________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible
Client fees, if any: None – must contribute back for services by helping out with some chores.
Eligible Population: Must be at least 18 years old and a Napa County resident to receive services.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Coordinated assessment for access to Adult Shelter; Showers; Restrooms; Mail, Laundry; Access to Computers.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.




































Napa County Health and Human Services Agency  Alcohol and Drug Services   
Access, Treatment Authorization, and Quality Services.  If you are seeking substance abuse, addiction treatment services or information on local treatment resources for yourself, a family member or a friend please contact us. Our services follow evidence based practices including NiaTx, Motivational Enhancement, and Motivational Interviewing and are provided in both English and Spanish. 


Overview of Services:
Screening and Comprehensive Assessments 
Determination of appropriate treatment placement based on client needs 
Consultation and Education materials 
Referrals and linkages to other services within the agency and community 
Outreach and Engagement services 
Community presentations, upon request 
 
Eligibility:
Eligibility requirements differ among the various contracted treatment providers. 


Cost of Services:
In all treatment agencies, a sliding scale fee, approved by the County Alcohol & Drug Administrator, is applied to services rendered. 


Contact:
Alcohol and Drug Services Centralized Access Line 
Phone: (707) 253-4063 
MONDAY through FRIDAY 8:00am to 5:00 pm, except holidays 

Location of Services: 
2344 Old Sonoma Road Bldg C, Napa, CA  94559
________________



Sacramento County






Probation Administration
9750 Business Park Drive
Sacramento, CA 95827
(916) 875-0300
Email:  probationmail@saccounty.net


Leaders in Community Alternatives  ADRC North
The ADRC North is a partnership between the Sacramento Probation Department and Leaders in Community Alternatives that bridges probation supervision services with comprehensive case management, barrier removal, employment and income benefits acquisition assistance.  In addition to the services LCA has on-site at the ADRC, LCA utilizes Sacramento County Probation's existing contracts for education, vocational and mental health services.  The goals of the ADRC are to reduce recidivism and build self-sufficiency skills in the clients we serve.   www.lcaservices.com


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Christopher Timpson
Phone:  (916) 876-4042
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00am-8:30pm
Location: 1215 Del Paso Blvd., Sacramento, CA  95815
Notes: All clients must be referred by probation.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None.
Eligible Population: Referred by Probation.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Case Management; Education (literacy services, high school and GED instruction); Employment Readiness; Job Placement; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Vocational Training; Anger Management; Behavioral Health Assessments & Treatment; Cognitive Behavioral Services. Referrals to other resources available as needed.
































Saint John’s Program for Real Change      
We provide more than shelter and food. We provide the ability to rise above devastating, negative elements and achieve job-readiness and self-sustainability. Entry into the program is limited, and each step is extremely rigorous. But those who see it through end up with rewarding, happy, and productive lives – for themselves, and for their children.  www.saintjohnsprogram.org




To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake
Phone: (916) 453-1482  
Intake Hours: 8:00am-5:00pm
Location:  P.O. Box 2443, Fair Oaks Blvd. #369, Sacramento, CA 95825
Notes: No drop-ins.  We maintain a waitlist so please call for information.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: ADA Compliant.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population:  Women at least 18 years of age and women with children. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Service: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing;  Access to Internet; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Childcare; Job Readiness Training; Transitional Employment; Job Placement; Education and GED Certification; Shower Facilities; Substance Abuse Treatment; Domestic Violence Counseling; Medical Care. Referrals to other resources available as needed.






















































Valley Recovery Center of California      
At Valley Recovery Center, we believe that a healthy recovery plan involves both the client and the family in conjunction with a strong continuing of care plan. We tailor our approach to each client by identifying his or her particular needs and creating a specific, individualized treatment plan. www.valleyrecoveryca.com




To Get Connected
Contact Person: David Burke
Phone: (530) 228-8764
Email:  dburke@summitbhc.com
Hours: 24 Hour residential program.
Location:  Sacramento, CA
Notes: Call to speak with an admissions counselor for a screening and assessment. We are JHACO accredited by the joint commission. We accept private insurance, private pay with payment options, EAP, workman’s comp cases, Kaiser Permanente, and other insurance.  Please call for more info.
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
Accessibility: ADA Compliant.
Client fees: We accept private insurance, private pay with payment options, EAP, workman’s comp cases, Kaiser Permanente, and other insurance.  Please call for more info.
Eligible Population:  Men and Women at least 18 years of age
Faith Based: We do have faith-based tracks as well.








Direct Service: Substance Abuse Treatment; Residential Treatment; Medically Managed Detox; Dual Diagnosis Residential Treatment.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.


Volunteers of America  Men’s A Street Shelter
Volunteers of America of Sacramento offers emergency shelter to men.  The length of stay at our shelter is 30 days plus two 30 day extensions for a total of 90 days.  We also offer referrals for additional housing options.   www.voa.org




To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake
Phone: (916) 448-5507  or (916) 448-1236 
Intake Hours: 8:00pm-6:00am
Location:  1400 North A Street, Building B, Sacramento, CA 95811
Notes: Must be at location by 8:00pm.  Beds are filled on a first come, first served, basis.  For other services call (916) 265-3400.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: ADA Compliant.
Client fees: None
Eligible Population:  Men 18 years of age and older and must be a resident of Sacramento County. 
Faith Based: No.
Direct Service: Emergency Shelter; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities. Referrals to other resources available as needed.



San Diego County






Probation Administration Center
9444 Balboa Ave., Suite 500
San Diego, CA 92123
(858) 514-3148


San Diego County Adult Probation Office
Hall of Justice
330 W. Broadway
San Diego, CA 92101
(619) 515-8202


San Diego Post-Incarceration Re-entry Resources
www.211sandiego.org/Re-entry




Alpha Project  Homeless Services  
Alpha Project’s mission is to empower individuals, families, and communities by providing work, recovery, housing and support services to people who are motivated to change their lives and achieve self-sufficiency. With a tax deductible donation, you may choose which program you would like to contribute to. Each and every program we offer provides hope, opportunities, and new beginnings to those that are less fortunate.   Alpha Project offers emergency shelter, transitional housing, residential substance abuse treatment and other services. www.alphaproject.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Staff 
Main Office Phone: (619) 542-1877 (General Information). 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm
Locations:  3737 Fifth Avenue, San Diego, CA  92103
Notes: Winter Shelter (619) 542-1877; Supportive Housing (619) 696-6500; Transitional Housing (619) 542-1877; No drop-ins, please call for appointment and info on other programs.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: CA ID, Social Security Card, Program will assist clients getting these documents.
Accessibility: Wheelchair.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years of age or older and a San Diego County resident.
Faith Based: No.
Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Substance Abuse Treatment; Transitional Employment; Supportive Housing.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.










Pathfinders of San Diego  Recovery Services
Pathfinders is a non-profit organization dedicated to maintaining residential centers which address the needs of individuals recovering from the disease of alcoholism and co-occurring disorders, assisting their families in dealing with the effects of alcoholism, and providing services to the community in its effort to reduce alcohol-related problems. www.pathfindersrecovery.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Steve Sapp  
Phone: (619) 239-7370 
Email:  recovery@pathfindersofsd.com
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 11:00am (except the last two and first two business days of each month and holidays.
Address:  2980 Cedar Street, 
San Diego, CA 92102 
Notes: No appointment necessary.  
     
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
What to Bring: Valid ID and current TB test.
Client fees: sliding scale—food stamps accepted as partial rent payment.
Eligible Population: Men  18 years and older,  no active warrants, no upcoming court dates,  no arson or sex crimes. May not work for the first 4 to 6 months of the program. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Residential Recovery program for male alcoholics. Designed to be a 9 month program.  Based on the Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous.




















































San Diego Rescue Mission  Residential Treatment/Transitional Housing/Emergency Shelter for Men, Women and Children
Since 1955 San Diego Rescue Mission has helped restore hope for San Diego’s homeless, hungry, addicted, and abused individuals. The Rescue Mission’s comprehensive programs meet basic needs, then go further. With God’s grace and the kindness and generosity of San Diegans, we dedicate ourselves every day to finding long-term solutions to the problem of homelessness.  www.sdrescue.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Main Office
Phone: (619) 687-3720 or (888) 737-3728
Men's Center:
Michael Castaneda (619) 818-1826
Women & Children's Center:  
Crystal Robinson (619) 819-1807
2nd Ave. Transitional Housing:  
Stephanie Rimer (619) 819-1722
Recuperative Care Unit:  
Chris Cessna (619) 819-1760
Nueva Vida Haven:  
Karen Keith (619) 819-1845
Email:  sdrminfo@sdrescue.org
Hours: Office Hours:  Monday-Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm; Shelter Hours:  24 hrs/7 days a week
Address:  PO Box 80427, San Diego, CA 92138.
Notes: No referral needed.  Please call for information.  
    
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: CA ID, Social Security Card are helpful but not required.
Accessibility: Wheelchair  and other disabilities accommodated.
Client fees: Emergency shelter (No Fee); Transitional Housing (Sliding Scale).
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years of age or older, Mothers with children (children up to age 16—for emergency shelter), for the woman and children center (children up to age 12).  
Faith Based: Yes.  


Direct Services:  Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Substance Abuse Treatment; Recovery for Homeless after Hospitalization.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
















San Mateo County






San Mateo County Adult Probation
400 County Center
5th Floor
Redwood City, CA  94603
Phone:  (650) 363-4244


David E. Lewis Community Reentry Center
2277 University Avenue
East Palo Alto, CA  94303


East Palo Alto Probation Office
2415 University Avenue
East Palo Alto, CA  94303
Phone:  (650) 363-4243


South San Francisco Probation Office
1024 Mission Road
South san Francisco, CA 94080
Phone:  (650) 877-5411


David Lewis Community Reentry Center       
The City of East Palo Alto and the County of San Mateo created and are funding the David Lewis Reentry Program to assist residents returning home from prison or jail with their reintegration back into the community. The David Lewis Reentry Center provides case management, classes in personal development and like skills, and referrals to other community partners for employment services.  www.cityofepa.org/index.aspx?NID=255


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Jose Cabrera
Phone:  (650) 853-3188 
Email:  jcabrera@smcgov.org
Hours: 8:00am-5:00pm
Location: 2277 University Avenue, East Palo Alto, CA 94303 
Notes: It is okay to drop-in and/or call/email for an appointment.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: AB 109 (referred from San Mateo County Probation). We also accept regular probation and parole referrals as well.
Faith Based:  We are not a faith based program but we do work with churches in our community if a client wishes to participate in faith based activities.


Direct Services: Case Management; Supportive Services; Personal Development; Life Skills; Financial Management; Cognitive Restructuring; Resume Development; Job Search; Access to Computers; Referrals to other resources available as needed.




Jericho Project  
The staff of Jericho Project has determined through professional research and numerous years of personal experience that a structured lifestyle is critical to long-term recovery.  We believe that it is essential to provide each individual with a regular schedule of activities designed to promote stable and responsible living.  Jericho Project is an education center for addicts and ex-convicts.  Our philosophy is that the drugs were not the main problem, but a symptom of the problem. The problem has always been honesty. We work on developing a sense of morals and values that can help keep an individual focused and clean. Our philosophy focuses on healing the body, mind, and spirit. Our Vocational Training department prepares residents for careers in construction, retail, transportation, warehousing and administrative careers.  We also have a state of the art fitness gym where residents are trained by our certified trainers or a General Physical Trainer.  
www.jericho-project.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake Coordinator
Phone: (415) 656-1700 Fax: (415) 715-1333 
Email: ksmith@jerichoproject.net 
Facility Hours: 24 hours/7 days. Intake hours: Monday – Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm.
Locations: 470 Valley Drive, Brisbane CA 94005
Notes: Telephone interviews are available Monday thru Friday between 
8am and 8pm. Collect calls are accepted (415) 467-9836
 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
What to Bring: Program will assist clients with necessary documents. 
Accessibility: ADA compliant
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older.
Direct Services: Assistance Getting Driver’s License or Other ID; Clothing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; Shower Facilities; Medical Care; Anger Management; 
Mentorship; Basic/Remedial Education; GED & High School Diploma; Reading/Literacy; Vocational Education; Employment Training; Employment Retention; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education; Inmate & Parolee Legal Voting Outreach & Education; Referrals to other resources available as needed. 




























JobTrain  Employment Services       
JobTrain transforms lives and communities in Silicon Valley. We help the Valley’s most in need reclaim their lives from poverty and unemployment by preparing them for successful, sustainable
careers in high-demand and emerging fields.  JobTrain is committed to helping those who are most in need to succeed. Our purpose is to improve the lives of people in our community through assessment, attitude and job skills training, and high potential career placement. Full-time vocational training programs include: Culinary Arts, Laborers Construction Fundamentals Training Program, Medical Assistant, Business Administration Skills, Professional Health Care Worker, and Project Build (Construction, Green Technology and Carpenter Pre-Apprenticeship). Students also benefit from Upgrade Trainings, which helps them to advance in their careers. Offerings include GED preparation, Academic Skills for Employment, ESL, and Computer Literacy. Our programs are provided for little or no cost to students.  www.jobtrainworks.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  JobTrain
Phone:  (650) 330-6429 Fax:  (650) 330-6401 
Email:  info@jobtrain.org
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00am-5:00pm
Location: 1200 O’Brien Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Notes: No appointment, drop-ins welcome for intake process.  We serve San Mateo County residents first.  Come visit our One Stop job search help workshops!  We also have a Single Stop on site for tax, legal, and nutrition help.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: San Mateo County residents have priority.  Must be 18 years of age by the time vocational training is completed.
Faith Based:  No.


Direct Services: Vocational Training; Employment Readiness; Life Skills; Access to Internet; GED Preparation; ESL; Computer Literacy.  Referrals to other resources available as needed.
Mz. Shirliz Transitional Inc.   Clean & Sober Transitional Housing
Mz. Shirliz offers transitional housing and supportive services for people in recovery from substance abuse/addiction and those who are trying to rebuild their lives post-incarceration. www.mzshirliz.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Shirley Lamarr
Phone:  (650) 218-8256 
Office location:  1447 El Camino Real, Redwood City, CA 94063
Hours: 8:00am-5:00pm
Notes: Please call first.  Drop-ins okay if it is a non-medical emergency.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessibility.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be at least 18 years of age, and not have a conviction for a sex offense or arson.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Transitional Housing; Supportive Services; Crisis Center; Individual & Group Counseling; Job Training; Job Retention Support.  Referral to other resources, including residential treatment, available as needed.
 
Our Common Ground  Substance Abuse Treatment Facility
Our Common Ground (OCG) is a treatment program for adults with substance abuse and mental health problems. We help people who realize they cannot do it alone – that they need the support, encouragement and challenge from other like-minded individuals who are working toward meaningful and productive lives, without drugs. Our nurturing environment helps each individual take responsibility for his or her own life and build skills for long term substance abuse recovery, rehabilitation and emotional and physical success. Many come back later and tell us about their happiness and success as parents, workers, students and contributing members of their communities due to the rehabilitation therapy they have received in our treatment center. www.ocgworks.org


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Richard Pecoraro, Intake Director
Phone:  (866) 325-6466
Intake Phone:  (650) 325-9544 
Location:  OCG Adult Services, 2560 Pulgas Avenue, Palo Alto, CA  94303.
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm
Notes: Please call for appointment.  We offer  Residential Treatment, Day Treatment, Outpatient Treatment.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessibility.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be at least 18 years of age, and not have a conviction for a sex offense or arson.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Residential Treatment; Evidence-Based Treatment; Case Management; Educational and Vocational Preparation; Conflict Resolution; Anger Management; Family/Individual Counseling; Supportive Services.  Referral to other resources available as needed.








































Project 90  Substance Abuse Treatment Services
Project 90 is a human services organization dedicated to meeting the needs of individuals, families and our communities through comprehensive alcohol and drug recovery.  www.projectninety.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake Department
Phone: (650) 579-7881 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Locations:  Corporate Office, 720 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 94401
Notes: Drop-in okay.  Interviews to get accepted on to the waitlist occur every Tuesday at 11:00am and every Friday at 11:45am at 416 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94401
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older.  Must not have conviction for arson or sex offense.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occuring Disorders/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Case Management; Trauma Recovery Services; Mentorship; Therapy; Clothing; Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items.




San Mateo County  Service Connect
Service Connect of San Mateo County provides a range of services aimed at supporting former inmates as they re-enter the community. Service Connect is available to individuals who have served sentences for specific low-level offenses, who live or plan to live in San Mateo County, and who are enrolled in Post-Release Community Supervision (PRCS) or who served their sentence in county jails under the 1170h program. Please check with your Probation Officer to see if you qualify for Service Connect or other re-entry assistance.  Service Connect is collaboration between the San Mateo County Sheriff's Department, Correctional Health, Probation, Human Services Agency, and the Health System. Our staff works across agency lines to reduce recidivism and connect clients with needed services.  https://hsa.smcgov.org/service-connect


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Front Desk
Phone:  (650) 508-6745 
Hours: 8:00am-5:00pm
Location: 550 Quarry Road, 2nd Floor, San Carlos, CA 94070 
Notes: Please check with your Deputy Probation Officer to see if you are eligible for referral/services.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  ADA Accommodations: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be on probation in San Mateo County.  Please check with your Deputy Probation Officer to see if you are eligible.
Faith Based: N/A.


Direct Services:  Temporary Emergency Shelter; Emergency Food; Clothing & Transportation Vouchers; Personal Hygiene Kits; Assistance Obtaining California Identification Documents; Case Management;  Assessments for Financial Benefits & Health Coverage; Links to Job Training & Employment; Family Re-Engagement Support; Mental Health & Substance-Abuse Recovery Referrals; Employment Services; Support Groups 7 Community Mentorship; Peer-to-Peer Mentoring; Moral Reconation Therapy (MRT); Health Services.

Santa Clara County






Santa Clara County Probation
Email:  Public.information@pro.sccgov.org


Adult Services Division-Main Office
2314 N. First Street
San Jose, CA. 95131
Phone: (408) 435-2000
Fax: (408) 456-0527


Adult Services Division-North County Office
270 Grant Ave.
Palo Alto, CA. 94306
Phone: (650) 324-6500
Fax: (650) 327-2502 


Adult Services Division-South County Office
17275 Butterfield Blvd., Ste. C
Morgan Hill, CA. 95037
Phone: (408) 201-0600  
Fax: (408) 779-8252


Administrative Services Division
2314 N. First Street
San Jose, CA. 95131
Phone: (408) 468-1655
Fax: (408) 955-0158 


































CITYTEAM International  Rescue Mission/Men’s Emergency Shelter 
In San Jose, Cityteam is providing hot meals, safe shelter, showers, and clean clothing to our city's homeless population. Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, Cityteam brings real help and real hope to the men, women, children, and families in crisis that are struggling with poverty or homelessness in San Jose and throughout Santa Clara County.
Cityteam San Jose also has renowned recovery programs for men and women seeking help to transform their lives from addiction to drugs and alcohol. Cityteam provides long-term compassionate ministry to people that walk through our doors. Through the generous support of our staff, volunteers, and donors, Cityteam is able to provide real help and real hope in Christ in order to bring real change into their lives.  www.cityteam.org/san-jose


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Shelter Intake
Phone: (408) 288-2153 Fax: (408) 428-9505 
Email:  sanjose@cityteam.org
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Corporate Office:  2304 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95131
Notes: Check in is Monday-Sunday at 5:30pm.  Must show up in person to 1174 Old Bayshore Highway, San Jose, CA  95112 by 5:00pm nightly.  We are a Men only shelter.  Call for more information.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: ADA compliant.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older.  
Faith Based: Yes.




Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Sower Facilities; Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items.








































CITYTEAM International  Substance Abuse Treatment Services
In San Jose, Cityteam is providing hot meals, safe shelter, showers, and clean clothing to our city's homeless population. Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, Cityteam brings real help and real hope to the men, women, children, and families in crisis that are struggling with poverty or homelessness in San Jose and throughout Santa Clara County.
Cityteam San Jose also has renowned recovery programs for men and women seeking help to transform their lives from addiction to drugs and alcohol. Cityteam provides long-term compassionate ministry to people that walk through our doors. Through the generous support of our staff, volunteers, and donors, Cityteam is able to provide real help and real hope in Christ in order to bring real change into their lives.  www.cityteam.org/san-jose


To Get Connected
Contact Person: Recovery Program
Phone: (408) 288-2185 Fax: (408) 428-9505 
Email:  sanjose@cityteam.org
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Location:  Men’s Recovery Program, 580 Charles Street, San Jose, CA 95112
Notes: Please call first for an intake.   Call (408) 885-8080 for our Women’s Recovery Program.
 
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Sliding Scale.
Eligible Population: Men ages 18 and older.  
Faith Based: Yes.




Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; 12 Step Program; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Case Management; Mentorship; Therapy; Clothing; Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items.  Referrals to other services available as needed.
Project 90  Substance Abuse Treatment Services San Jose
Project 90 is a human services organization dedicated to meeting the needs of individuals, families and our communities through comprehensive alcohol and drug recovery.  www.projectninety.org
To Get Connected
Contact Person: Intake Department
Phone: (408) 885-1291 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Location:  561 South 9th Street, San Jose, CA 95112
Notes: All clients must be referred through Gateway.  Please contact Gateway at 800-488-9919.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English. 
What to Bring: State-Issued ID
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees: Sliding scale.
Eligible Population: Men and Women, ages 18 and older.  Must not have conviction for arson or sex offense.
Faith Based: No.




Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Co-Occuring Disorders/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Anger Management; Case Management; Trauma Recovery Services; Mentorship; Therapy; Clothing; Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items.






Santa Clara County Reentry Center       
The Re-Entry Resource Center is a centralized location for custodial and non-custodial individuals to receive referral and wrap around services. Our vision is to build safer communities and strengthen families through successful reintegration and reentry of formerly incarcerated individuals back into Santa Clara County.  Our mission is to reduce recidivism by using evidence-based practices in implementing a seamless system of services, supports, and supervision. We offer reentry services, Probation Intake and Assessment, and Custody Alternative Programs. 




To Get Connected
Contact Person: General Information
Phone: (408) 535-4280  
Intake Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am to 5pm
Location:  151 W. Mission Street, San Jose, CA 95110
Notes: Must be criminal justice involved and reside in Santa Clara County.


________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: ADA Compliant.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population:  Men/Women ages 18 and older, must reside in Santa Clara County and criminal justice involved. 
Faith Based: No, but can referred to faith-based reentry resource centers in Santa Clara County.


 
Direct Service: Probation Intake and Assessment; Parolee Reentry Program; Behavioral Health Services; Public Benefits & Health Coverage; Reentry Mobile Clinic; Education; Employment; Family Reunification; Legal Advice; Linkage to Faith-Based Reentry Centers; Housing; Peer Mentor/Support; Expungement; Food Pantry; Clothing.

























Solano County


Solano County Probation
Main Office

Phone: (707) 784-7600

475 Union Avenue
Fairfield, CA  94533


Vallejo Branch Office
Phone:  (707) 553-5532
355 Tuolumne Street
3rd Floor
Vallejo, CA  94590


Center for Positive Change
Phone:  (707) 553-5870
355 Tuolumne Street, Suite 1300
Vallejo, CA  94590




Healthy Partnerships  Substance Abuse Services
Healthy Partnerships (HP) employs a consumer-oriented approach to substance abuse treatment services. Clients participating in these services can either enter voluntarily or through court-ordered to do so. HP works closely with Probation and Parole in compliance with any court mandates. Clients requesting services are assessed for individual treatment plans. We provide outpatient substance abuse services.  www.healthypartnerships.com




To Get Connected
Phone: (707) 425-1799 (if you have private insurance) or (707) 784-2220 (if you do not have insurance and Solano County Substance Abuse Services will provide you with a referral).
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am to 5pm
Location:  1735 Enterprise Dr. Suite A
Fairfield, CA 94533
Notes: If you do not have insurance please call (707) 784 2220 for assessment.  Healthy Partnerships is CARF accredited and can take most insurance.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.  ADA Compliant.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population:  Men/Women ages 18 and older, must reside in Solano County.
Faith Based: No/Yes






 


Direct Service: Outpatient Substance Abuse Services; Case Management; DUI Services; Group Therapy; Individual Counseling.




Family Resource Centers
Below is a list of local Family Resource Centers. The Family Resource Centers (FRC) provide information and referral services to families with children in Solano County. FRCs assist families in identifying and accessing community resources to meet their needs, including parenting, family recreation, job search, transportation, child care basic needs, etc. FRCs also offer parenting and resource libraries, parenting classes, computer and internet access for job search and resume writing, and much more. Contact your local FRC below:  www.co.solano.ca.us/depts/fvp/community_resources/family_resource_center_%28frc%29.asp
or www.childnet.org/parents--families/family-resource-centers


Benicia Family Resource Center 
Phone: (707) 746-4352 or 746-2623
Fax: (707) 746-8127
Email:  bhilman@ci.benicia.ca.us
350 East K Street
Benicia, CA 94510


The Benicia FRC offers provides resources and referrals, basic needs assistance, parenting support and education, domestic violence advocacy, counseling, etc. 


Cleo Gordon Family Resource Center
Phone: (707) 421-3961
Fax:  (707) 435-2732 
1950 Dover Ave., Room 18
Fairfield, CA  94533


Dixon Family Resource Center 
Cookie Powell 
Phone:  (707) 678-0442 
Fax:  (707) 678-4014 
Email:  cookie@dixonfamilyservices.org 
155 North 2nd Street
Dixon, CA 95620


The Dixon Family Resource Center (FRC) provides resources and referrals, basic needs assistance, parenting support and education, domestic violence advocacy, counseling, etc. 


Fairfield Healthy Start, Family Resource Center 
Phone:  (707) 421-3224 
Fax:  (707) 435-2732 
Email:  zoilap@fsusd.k12.ca.us 
1600 Kidder Ave. 
Fairfield, CA 94533 


The Fairfield FRC offers English as second language classes, basic need assistance, parenting education, clothes closet, free or low cost health insurance program, counseling, etc. 






Rio Vista C.A.R.E., Family Resource Center 
Adriana Bejarano 
Phone:  (707) 374-5243 
Fax:  (707) 374-5381 
Email:  abejarano@rvcare.org 
125 Sacramento St. 
Rio Vista, CA 94571 


Rio Vista FRC offers counseling (individual and family), referrals and linkages to services, family support home visiting program, and basic needs assistance. 


Suisun Healthy Start, Family Resource Center 
Phone:  (707) 421-4398
Fax:  (707) 435-2732 
Email:  zoilap@fsusd.k12.ca.us
725 Golden Eye Way 
Suisun, CA 94585 


Vacaville FIRST Office, Family Resource Center 
Phone: (707) 469-6608 
Fax:  (707) 469-6625 
Email:  gdiaz@cityofvacaville.com 
312 Cernon Street, Suite D 
Vacaville, CA 95688 


Vacaville FRC provides resources and referrals, basic needs assistance, parenting education, domestic violence support groups, counseling services, etc. 


Greater Vallejo Fighting Back Partnership, Family Resource Center  
Phone:  (707) 648-5230 
Fax:  (707) 648-5212 
Email:  jwilson@fight-back.org  
Website:  www.Fight-Back.org
505 Santa Clara Street, (3rd floor) 
Vallejo, CA 94590
 
Vallejo FRC provides resources and referrals, basic needs assistance, homeless assistance, mentoring, parenting support and education. 


North Vallejo Fighting Back Partnership, Family Resource Center  
Phone:  (707) 556-8921 ext. 56540 
jwilson@fight-back.org
Loma Vista Elementary School
146 Rainier Ave., Room 43
Vallejo, CA  94589






Mission SOLANO Rescue Mission        
Mission SOLANO Rescue Mission focused its vision to develop long-term residential treatment for homeless addicted men, women, and Veterans. Since then, Mission SOLANO has successfully met the basic necessities of the homeless and poverty stricken population. Our unique and nationally recognized Nomadic Sheltering Program provides emergency shelter nights to those in need, while maintaining and managing our Community Outreach Center (COC) and Social Industries distributing food, clothing and ongoing community services. In 2009 we opened our Bridge To Life Center, our long-term solution to homelessness. Through transitional housing and a holistic program, we address spiritual, physical, emotional, psychosocial and vocational needs. Our six buildings are able to provide for 208 individuals through our Hope Home for Homeless Vets, the Matt Garcia Home for Women and Children, and twelve two-bedroom family units.  Our doors are open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Help is available without charge to any person regardless of race, color, creed or social standing.   www.missionsolano.org

To Get Connected
Phone: (707) 425-3663  
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am to 5pm
Locations:  Community Outreach Center, 740 Travis Blvd, Fairfield, CA  94553; Bridge to Life Center, 310 Beck Avenue, Fairfield, CA  94553
Notes: May show up for a bed at 2:30pm daily to see if there is room.  No reservations, first come, first serve.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Call for information.
Client fees: None.
Eligible Population:  Men/Women ages 18 and older.  Must be a Solano County resident.
Faith Based: Yes


 
Direct Service: Emergency Shelter; Long-Term Residential; Food/Meals Prepared; Clothing.






















Solano County Substance Abuse Services        
Solano County Substance Abuse Services is dedicated to providing a continuum of care that benefits the clients and providers. Utilizing a combined administrative, clinical, and preventive services approach, we deliver coordinated services to the diverse populations of Solano County who are impacted by alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs (ATOD), and related issues such as domestic violence. 

To Get Connected
Phone: (707) 784-2220  Fax: (707) 425-4038  
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am to 5pm
Locations:  2101 Courage Drive, Suite 101, Fairfield, CA  94553.
Notes: Please call for an appointment.  If you need to stop using alcohol or substances immediately, call the Southern Solano Alcohol Council Detox at (707) 643-2715 or visit the nearest emergency room.
________________
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish. 
Accessibility: Wheelchair accessible.  
Client fees: Will be discussed during intake. If you do not have insurance you will not be turned away.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 years of age and older, uninsured or Medi-Cal, must be a Solano County resident.  Must have used drugs or alcohol in the past year.
Faith Based: No.


 
Direct Service: Detox; Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Outpatient Substance Abuse Treatment.























Sonoma County






Sonoma County Probation
600 Administration Drive
Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Phone:  (707) 565-2149


COTS  The Petaluma Kitchen
Committee on the Shelterless (COTS) Petaluma Kitchen offers daily meals and weekly boxes of emergency food.  The Petaluma Kitchen serves critical meals to many low income families, seniors and individuals in our community. In this community kitchen, located at 900 Hopper Street in Petaluma, COTS provides a nutritious meal each day to homeless and at-risk families and individuals. The Food Box Program provides weekly boxes of supplemental groceries to residents of Petaluma who meet the Emergency Food Assistance Program (EFAP) income requirements.  Food Boxes are delivered on Saturdays or may be picked up Sunday – Thursday 9:30-11am.  To apply for the Food Box Program must show a current photo id, proof of their address in Petaluma, and proof of their income.     www.cots-homeless.org/index.php/how-we-help/homeless-services


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  The Petaluma Kitchen
Phone :  (707) 765-6530 x131 
Hours: Free meals are served daily: Breakfast from 7:30-9:00am, Lunch from11:30am-1:00pm, Dinner for MIC residents only from 5:00-6:00pm
Location: P.O. Box 2744, Petaluma, CA 94953; 900 Hopper Street, Petaluma, CA  94952
Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessible.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: All are welcome. Children must be accompanied by a parent. 
Faith Based: No.
Notes: It is okay to drop-in.


Direct Services: Food/Prepared Meals; Clothing; Shower Facilities; Access to Laundry Machines.  The Petaluma Kitchen is the central contact point of COTS' outreach to persons living on the streets, to encourage them to seek shelter and support at the Mary Isaak Center.


























COTS  Mary Isaak Center (Transitional Housing/Emergency Shelter)
Committee on the Shelterless (COTS) Mary Isaak Center facility is the setting for the majority of COTS' programs and services. These programs help families and single adults to heal from trauma and homelessness, gain life skills, optimize their income, and acquire permanent housing. We know that trauma influences how people respond and live in the world. If we do not deal with this history, it is extremely difficult to help people move forward.  The second floor of the building is dedicated to the Family Transitional Housing program, which provides shelter and a wide range of transformative programs for up to 11 families at a time. Families may stay for up to two years, during which time they receive intensive support services and individualized case management. Parents are required to participate in Kids First, COTS' 12-week parenting skills training, and in Rent Right, a 9-week course in financial literacy and housing search. More than 70% of families graduate into permanent housing and independent stable lives. The 100-bed Emergency Shelter for Single Adults is located on the first floor of the Mary Isaak Center. Services include food, clothing, showers, access to phones and a messaging system, access to computers, transportation assistance, mental health and chemical dependency recovery support, job skills training, and assistance in obtaining employment and/or public benefits. Residents may stay for up to six months and more than 50% graduate into either transitional or permanent housing. The Emergency Shelter for Single Adults serves up to 500 individuals annually.  
www.cots-homeless.org/index.php/how-we-help/homeless-services


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Staff
Phone:  (707) 765-6530
Hours: Vary depending on program.  Business hours are Monday-Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm.
Location: P.O. Box 2744, Petaluma, CA 94953; 900 Hopper Street, Petaluma, CA  94952
Notes: It is okay to drop-in.


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.  Translation services available upon request.
Accessibility:  Wheelchair accessibile.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Homeless adults and families. 
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Life Skills; Food/Prepared Meals; Clothing; Shower Facilities; Access to Laundry Machines.  The Petaluma Kitchen is the central contact point of COTS' outreach to persons living on the streets, to encourage them to seek shelter and support at the Mary Isaak Center.


























Redwood Gospel Mission  Men’s Shelter and Women’s Shelter
The Redwood Gospel Mission offers a men's emergency shelter.  The Men's Mission is for men experiencing homelessness. There is a Transitional Savings Program, where guests can remain at the Mission for six months to save money while they put their lives back together and form a plan to leave homelessness behind. The Redwood Gospel also offers an emergency shelter for women.  The Rose serves women with children (girls of all ages, boys ages 11 and under) experiencing homelessness  There is a Transitional Savings Program, where guests can remain at the Rose for six months to save money while they put their lives back together and learn the skills necessary to put homelessness behind them. www.srmission.org/index.php 


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  
Men’s Mission
Intake/ Richard Sundahl
Phone: (707) 542-4817 
The Rose (Women’s Shelter)
Intake/ Chris Keys
Phone:  (707) 573-0490 (call after 3:30pm)
Hours: 24 Hours/day
Location: 101 6th Street, Santa Rosa, CA, 95401
Notes: Drop-ins welcome.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: NA
Accessibility:  Limited Accommodations.
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be at least 18 years old to receive services, unless emancipated.
Faith Based: Yes.


Direct Services: Emergency Shelter; Transitional Housing; Food/Prepared Meals; Hygiene/Personal Care Items; P.O. Box/Mail Service; Local Phone; Shower Facilities; Mental Health Treatment; Medical Care; Health & Wellness Education; Group Counseling/Therapy; Individual Counseling/Therapy; Job Readiness/Life Skills; Money Management/Personal Financial Education.












































Sonoma County Job Link
Job Link is Sonoma County's one-stop career center. Job Link serves job seekers with meetings with Job Counselors, training scholarships, classes on resume writing and online job search, access to a computer lab and disability tools. Job Link hosts hiring events and job fairs at the Job Link office which has a computer lab for on-line applications and interview space.  The Job Link Website, www.joblinksonomacounty.com is a virtual one-stop, offering many services online, 24 hours a day.  www.joblinksonomacounty.com 


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Front Desk
Phone: (707) 565-5550 
Hours: Monday – Friday  8:00am - 5:00pm;
Resource Center 8:00am - 4:45pm; Computer Lab 8:30am - 4:00pm Monday - Thursday, 8:30am -3:30pm Friday.
Location: 2227 Capricorn Way, Suite 100,Santa Rosa, CA  95407
Notes: Must attend a Job Link Orientation M-F at 1:30pm—no appointment needed.  Spanish speaking orientation on Thursdays at 10:00am.
________________




Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  ADA Accommodations: Wheelchair accessibility 
Client fees, if any: None
Eligible Population: Must be at least 18 years old to receive services.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Job Readiness; Job Search Assistance; Resume Writing.
Sonoma County Probation  Day Reporting Center
The Sonoma County Probation Day Reporting Center is a comprehensive program designed to accommodate the needs of individuals under probation supervision who have recently been incarcerated and are transitioning back into the community.  The focus of the center is to provide evidenced based programming to the participants to promote behavior change.  Additionally, through the use of on-site community partners, participants can quickly access much needed resources to address personal, educational, and vocational goals, with the ultimate objective of reducing recidivism.


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  DRC Staff
Phone: (707) 565-8041 
Hours: Monday/Wednesday/Friday 9:00am-8:00pm; Tuesday/Thursday 7:00am-6:00pm
Location: 2400-A County Center Drive, Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Notes: Referrals made directly from Sonoma County Adult Probation. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English/Spanish.
Client fees, if any: Participation in assigned programming is free of charge.
Eligible Population: the AB 109 population and those individuals under probation supervision with high risk for recidivism.
Faith Based: No


Direct Services: Cognitive Behavioral Intervention Groups; Aggression Replacement Training; Eligibility Worker; Vocational & Educational Services; Substance Abuse/Mental Health Assessment 7 Referral Resources; Chemical Testing.  Referrals to other resources are available as needed.


Turning Point  Residential Treatment Program
A program of center Point DAAC, Turning Point is a residential treatment program from 30 to 270 days.  Turning Point Residential Program offers co-ed and gender-specific services, with a specialized treatment track intended for those with co-occurring mental health and substance abuse problems. Additional treatment tracks include: Working Adults Program (for individuals seeking intensive treatment while maintaining their employment) and an Opiate Addictions Program (in coordination with Narcotic Replacement Therapy, such as Methadone or Suboxone).  Core components of residential treatment at Turning Point includes initial participant assessment/placement, individual, collateral/family and group counseling, case management and individualized treatment planning, mental health evaluation and short-term on-site counseling support as warranted, as well as services focusing on life skills such as maintaining health, building and maintaining socially supportive relationships, recognizing and preventing substance abuse relapse, avoiding violence and criminal behavior, recognizing and shifting self-defeating thinking and behavior pattern, parenting skills and stress management and improved coping skills.  www.daacinfo.org/PS_residential.shtml


To Get Connected
Contact Person:  Central Intake Department
Phone: (707) 544-3295 
Hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm
Location: 2401 Professional drive, Santa Rosa, CA  95401
Notes: Call first for appointment.  If you are interested in residential or outpatient care please call. 
________________


Things To Know
Languages Spoken: English, Spanish.
Accessibility:  ADA Accommodations: Wheelchair accessibility. 
Client fees, if any: Sliding scale.  Funding available.  Will be discussed during intake.
Eligible Population: All individuals 18 and older who are residents of Sonoma County.
Faith Based: No.


Direct Services: Residential Substance Abuse Treatment; Outpatient; Individualized Treatment Plans; Case Management; Cognitive Behavioral Therapy; Co-Occurring Disorder/Dual Diagnosis Treatment; Health & Wellness Education; Outside AA/NA Meetings.










































INDEX
111 Taylor, 93
211 Community Services, 24
311 San Francisco Services, 24
511 Transportation, 24
A Better Way, 222
A Woman's Place, 89, 110
Abode Services, 252
ACCESS Center, 245
ACCESS Child Care, 225
Access Points, 124
ACTCM, 148
Addiction Research and Treatment, 166
Adrian Maldonado, 163
Adult Education Center, 194
Affordable Care Act, 69
Aging and Disability Resource Center, 192
AIDS Legal Referral Panel, 232
Alameda County Probation, 252
Alcoholics Anonymous, 25, 145
All of Us or None, 248
Alpha Project, 277
ALRP, 232
America Works of California, 128
Anders and Anders Foundation, 127
ARA First Step, 88
Arab Cultural and Community Center, 181
Arabic, 113, 173
Arriba Juntos, 127
Asian American Recovery Services, 157, 167, 168, 169
Asian Law Caucus, 233
Asian Neighborhood Design, 129
Asian Women's Shelter, 113
Assamese, 86, 87, 215, 246
Asset Building, 73
BAART Community HealthCare, 170
BAART Programs, 166
Back on Track Initiative, 242
Bay Area Legal Aid, 234
Bay Area Women’s & Children’s Center, 181
BayLegal, 234
Bayview Hunters Point Foundation for Community Improvement, 146
Bengali, 113
BHAC, 144
Birth Certificate, 39
Black Coalition on AIDS, 182
CAAP, 63
CalFresh, 66
California Coalition for Women Prisoners, 247
California HIV/AIDS Hotline, 144
California Pacific Medical Center, 130
CalWorks, 225
CalWORKs, 65
Cameo House Transitional Housing Program, 90
Cantonese, 86, 87, 95, 104, 109, 111, 113, 136, 137, 148, 157, 169, 174, 175, 176, 177, 181, 190, 198, 214, 215, 223, 225, 227, 228, 233, 234, 242, 243, 245, 246
Cantoniese, 238
CARECEN, 147
CASC, 188
Cash Assistance Linked to Medi-Cal (CALM), 64
Catholic Charities/CYO, 83
CATS, 89, 110
CCWP, 247
Center For Employment Opportunities, 253
Center for Restorative Justice Works, 184
Center for Young Womens Development, 185
Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice, 90, 185
Center On Juvenile And Criminal Justice, 130
Centerforce, 187
Central American Resource Center, 147
Central City Hospitality House, 183
Central City Older Adult Clinic, 175
Certificate of Homelessness, 81
Charity Cultural Services Center, 131
CHEFS, 134
Child Crisis Services, 229
Child Support, 78
Children’s Council of San Francisco, 223
Chinatown North Beach Mental Health Services, 174
Chinese, 120, 141, 142, 144, 148, 152, 173, 183, 203, 210, 229, 236
Chris Jones, 107
City Build Academy, 125, 131
City College of San Francisco, 116, 117, 118, 119
CITYTEAM, 158, 286, 287
Citywide Case Management Forensic Program, 179
Citywide NoVA therapy program, 180
Clara House, 92
Clean Slate Program, 244
Clinica Esperanza, 151
COAP, 78, 227
Community & Jail Outreach Program, 228
Community Action of Napa Valley, 272
Community Acupuncture Project Ear Clinic at the American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 148
Community Assessment and Services Center, 188
Community Housing Partnership, 82
Community Programs, 204
Community Works West, 189, 224
Compass Clara House, 92
Compass Connecting Point, 111, 190
Compass Family Services, 84, 92, 111, 190, 225
Comprehensive Outreach Program for Pacific Islanders and Asian Substance Abusers, 167
Compromise of Arrears Program, 78, 227
Connecting Point, 111
Construction Training Program, 129
Contra Costa County Alcohol and Other Drug Services, 257
Cooperative Restraining Order Clinic, 235
COPPASA, 167
COTS  Mary Isaak Center, 295
County Adult Assistance Program, 63
Court Accountable Homeless Services, 203
Credit, 72
Credit Counseling, 74
Curtis Penn, 89
Customer Service Outreach, 78
Dari, 141
David Lewis Community Reentry Center, 280
Deaf Community Counseling Services, 191
Defy Ventures, 132
Delancey Street Foundation, 159, 263
Department of Rehabilitation, 133
Disabled Students Programs & Services, 116
Discovery House Substance Abuse Program, 258
DMV, 45
Domestic Violence, 25
Domestic Violence Shelters, 113
Dominique Leslie, 149
Dress For Success, 191
Dutch, 113
Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment, 226
EDC, 236
Eli Walker, 138
EMERGENCY SHELTER, 109
EPCOT, 78, 228
Episcopal Community Services, 134, 194
EPSDTP, 226
Ernest Kirkwood, 149
Eviction Defense Collaborative, 236
Fair Chance Ordinance San Francisco, 123
Family of Friends Clean & Sober Living Network, 104
Family Resource Centers, 290
Farsi, 113, 114, 152
Father Alfred Center, 165
Five Keys Charter School, 120, 204, 264
Food Addicts Anonymous, 145
Food Pantries, 220
Food Stamps, 66, 82, 90, 98, 105, 108, 139, 157, 198, 202, 213
Frank Williams, 208
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), 115
Free Clothing Program, 210
French, 198, 200, 234, 236, 245
Frequently Asked Questions, 15
Friendship House, 160
Garry Walker, 128
GED Records, 115
General Assistance (GA), 64
George Turner, 103
Georgian, 113
Gerald Miller, 186
German, 83, 111, 190, 214
Get On The Bus, 184
Glide Daily Free Meals Program, 195
Glide Foundation, 195, 196, 197
Glide Walk-in center, 109
Golden Gate University School of Law – Womens Employment Rights Clinic, 236
Good Shepherd Gracenter, 94
Goodwill Industries, 135
Greek, 94
Guardian Scholars Program, 117
Gujarati, 113, 233
Hamilton Family Center, 85, 95, 97, 112
Hamilton Family Residences & Emergency Center, 112
Harbor House, 98
HCN, 226
Health and Social Services, 213
HealthCare Academy, 125
HealthRIGHT 360, 148, 161, 171
HealthRIGHT360, 265, 266, 267
Healthy Families, 70, 71, 229, 230
Healthy Kids, 70, 71, 229, 230
Healthy Partnerships  Substance Abuse Services, 289
Healthy San Francisco, 70, 71, 144, 175, 176, 177
Healthy Workers, 71
Hindi, 113
Holy Family Day Home, 225
Homeless Advocacy Project (HAP), 237
Homeless Children's Network, 226
Homeless Prenatal Program, 198, 202
Homeward Bound of Marin, 270, 271
Horizons Unlimited of San Francisco, 172
Hospitality Initiative, 126
Housing, 79, 99
Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco, 238
Hyde Street Community Services, 173
Indonesian, 113
Infant, Toddler and PreK Program and Family Support Service, 225
Instituto Familiar de la Raza, 173
Italian, 245
Janitorial Training/Placement, 141
Japanese, 113, 226
Jason Bell, 122
Javanese, 113
Jelani, Inc., 162
Jericho Project, 281
Jewish Vocational Services, 137
Jireh Technologies, Inc., 199
JobTrain, 282
Joe Bluford, 126
John Wilson, 187
Joseph Calderon, 169
Kachi, 113
Kannada, 113
Katie Dixon, 110
Korean, 113, 169, 179
La Casa de las Madres, 114
La Raza Centro Legal, 238
Lao, 113
Larry Freitas, 103
Lavender Youth Recreation & Information Center, 200
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights, 202, 239
LCA, 188, 201
Leaders in Community Alternatives, 188, 201, 274
Leaders In Community Alternatives, 254
Lee Woodward Counseling Center, 168
Legal self-help, 245
Legal Services for Prisoners with Children, 248
Leland House, 83
Luis Aroche, 91
Lutheran Social Services, 99
LYRIC, 200
Mandarin, 86, 87, 104, 111, 113, 114, 136, 148, 169, 174, 177, 181, 190, 198, 213, 214, 215, 222, 223, 225, 233, 234, 237, 238, 243, 245, 246
Marin County Probation, 270
Meals, 218
Medi-Cal, 69, 70, 71, 83, 170, 173, 175, 176, 177, 179, 222, 226
Men In Progress, 195
Metropolitan Fresh Start House, 100
Mission Council on Alcohol Abuse for the Spanish Speaking, Inc., 150
Mission Hiring Hall, 136
Mission Mental Health, 175
Mission Neighborhood Health Center, 151
Mission Neighborhood Resource Center, 109, 201
Mission SOLANO, 292
Mobile Crisis Treatment Team, 210
Monique Randolph, 91
Multi-Service Center, 109
Multi-Service Center (MSC) South, 109
Mz. Shirliz Transitional Inc., 282
Nanny’s Sober Living, 101
Napa County Alcohol and Drug Services, 273
Narcotics Anonymous, 25, 145
Nate Williams, 84
National Council on Crime & Delinquency, 202
Navajo, 160
Nepali, 141
New Roads Program, 86
New Skin, 152
Nichole Pettway, 106
No Violence Alliance, 205
Noncustodial Parent Employment & Training Program, 78, 228
NoVA, 180, 185, 205
OBOT, 178
Office of Citizen Complaints, 242
One Family/Parenting Inside Out, 224
Options Recovery Service, 255
Our Common Ground, 283
Our Father’s Sober Living Environment, 101
Outpatient Substance Abuse Treatment Program, 172
Outpatient Treatment, 166
Overdose, 26
Parental Stress Hotline, 25
Parole, 35, 37, 45, 93
Parole Regional Offices, 250, 251
Pashtu, 141
PATH  Supportive Services/Interim & Transitional Housing, 268
Pathfinders of San Diego, 278
PEP Jobs, 130
Personal Assisted Employment Services (PAES), 63
Phatt Chance Community Services, 102
Portuguese, 245, 249
Positive Connections Program, 187
Positive Directions Equals Change, 174
Positive Resource Center, 139
Post-Release Community Supervision and Mandatory Supervision, 37
power up youth, 127
PRC Employment Services, 139
Prison Law Office, 240
Prisoner Legal Services, 62, 249, 251
Probation, 35, 36, 37, 38, 93, 127
Progress Foundation, 164
Project 90, 284, 287
Project ADAPT, 169
Project Read, 121
Project Rebound, 122
Project WHAT!, 224
Prop 47, 17
Proyecto Common Touch, 249
Public Library, 27
Punjabi, 113
Rachel Dunne, 114
RADCo, 236
RAMP-SF, 125
RAP Sheet, 53
Ray Bursey, 118
Reconnecting All through Multiple Pathways, 125
Recovery Survival Network, 104
Redwood Gospel Mission, 296
Reentry Council of San Francisco, 18
Reentry Navigator, 125, 135
Reentry Navigator Program, 135
Reentry Today, 107
Reentry Unit, 245
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center, 140
Representative Payee Program, 215
Rico Hamilton, 106
Robert Mansfield, 159
Robert Smith, 158
Root & Rebound, 241
Rosen, Bien, Galvan & Grunfeld, 241
Rubicon Programs, 259
Russian, 113, 136, 137, 166, 170, 177, 179, 223, 232, 236, 238, 242, 245
Saint John’s Program for Real Change, 275
Salvation Army, 262
San Diego County Adult Probation Office, 277
San Diego Rescue Mission, 279
San Francisco Adult Probation, 202
San Francisco Behavioral Health Access Center, 144
San Francisco Conservation Corps, 121
San Francisco Department of Aging and Adult Services, 192
San Francisco Department of Child Support Services, 78, 227, 228
San Francisco Department of Public Health, 39, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 202, 210, 229
San Francisco Housing Authority, 80, 81
San Francisco Human Services Agency, 86
San Francisco Network Ministries Housing Corporation, 105
San Francisco Office of the District Attorney, 242, 243
San Francisco Office of the Public Defender, 244, 245
San Francisco Pretrial Diversion, 203
San Francisco Public Library, 121
San Francisco Rental Assistance Program, 86
San Francisco SafeHouse, 105
San Francisco Sheriff’s Department, 204, 205, 206
San Francisco State University, 122
San Francisco VA Downtown Clinic, 154
San Mateo County  Service Connect, 284
San Mateo County Adult Probation, 280
Santa Clara County Probation, 285
Santa Clara County Reentry Center, 288
Saved by Grace, 207
Second Chance Legal Clinic, 239
Second Chance Program, 118
Senior Ex-Offender Program, 208
SF Bay Counseling and Education, 209
SF Clean City, 202
SF Clean City Coalition, 140
SF Fair Chance Ordinance, 17
SF Home, 84
Shelter Inc, 260
Sisters Rising & GDAP, 185
Sober Living, 88
Social Security Administration, 67
Social Security Card, 47
Social Work Center, 211
Social Work Unit, 214
Solano County Probation, 289
Solano County Substance Abuse Services, 293
Sonoma County Job Link, 297
Sonoma County Probation, 294
Sonoma County Probation  Day Reporting Center, 297
South of Market Health Center, 152
South of Market Mental Health Services, 176
Southeast Mission Geriatric Services, 177
Spanish, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 92, 93, 94, 95, 97, 99, 104, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 117, 120, 127, 129, 135, 136, 137, 139, 140, 142, 144, 146, 147, 148, 150, 151, 152, 153, 156, 158, 159, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 181, 183, 184, 185, 187, 190, 194, 195, 196, 198, 199, 200, 201, 203, 204, 206, 209, 210, 211, 213, 214, 215, 222, 223, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 232, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 241, 242, 243, 244, 245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 252, 254, 257, 258, 259, 260, 261, 263, 264, 266, 267, 268, 269, 272, 274, 275, 276, 277, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284, 286, 287, 288, 289, 292, 293, 295, 297
SSI, 67
SSI/SSP, 67
St. Anthony Foundation, 165, 210, 211
St. Vincent de Paul, 212
Steve Adami, 186
Suicide Prevention, 25
Sunset Mental Health Clinic, 177
Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco, 245
Supplemental Security Income Pending (SSIP), 64
Swords to Plowshares, 68, 213, 246
Tagalog, 113, 136, 144, 152, 154, 166, 169, 170, 175, 176, 198, 201, 213, 214, 233, 234, 242, 245, 246
Taglog, 210, 229
Taiwanese, 113
Tamil, 113
Tattoo Removal, 152
Technology Access Center, 137
TechSF, 126
Telugu, 113
Tenderloin Housing Clinic, 86, 87, 215, 246
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, 214
Tenderloin Outpatient Clinic, 173
Tenderloin Tech Lab, 211
Thai, 113, 233
The Bread Project, 141
The Latino Commission, 163
The Mission at Kern County, 261
The Salvation Army, 98
This Sacred Space, 216
Toisa, 113
Toisanese, 245
Tom Waddell Clinic, 178
Toolworks, 141
Transitional Age Youth, 178
Transitional Day Reporting Center, 254
Transitional Housing Program, 97
Transitions Clinic, 144, 153
Tulio Cardoza, 136
Turning Point  Residential Treatment Program, 298
U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, 154
UCSF, 179, 180, 181
United Council of Human Services, 109
Urban Services YMCA, 142
Valley Recovery Center of California, 276
Veteran’s Benefits, 68
Veterans Justice Outreach, 216
Victim Services Division, 243
Victory Outreach San Francisco, 108
Vietnamese, 142, 174, 181, 210, 214, 223, 229, 233, 234, 237, 243
Vietnnamese, 173
Village Connect, 217
Voices on the Rise, 189
Volunteers of America, 276
Vote, 62
Walden House, 202
Walk-In Center, 196
Way Pass Women’s Aftercare Program, 119
Weingart Center  Homeless Services, 269
Wellness Center, 212
Westside Community Services, 155, 230
WIA Workforce Investment Act, 256
With Open Arms, 202
Woman Alive, 206
Women Rising/Rising Voices, 189
Women's Center, 197
Women's Community Clinic, 156
Women's Community Clinic Outreach Services, 156
Women's Resource Center, 206
Young Men’s Reentry Program, 189
